v. Not to be confused with a star schema (see “Stars and Snowflakes: Schemas for Analytics” on page 93),
which describes the structure of a data model, not the communication topology between nodes.
allowing a user to make a booking, there can be a conflict if the two bookings are
made on two different leaders.
There isn’t a quick ready-made answer, but in the following chapters we will trace a
path toward a good understanding of this problem. We will see some more examples
of conflicts in Chapter 7, and in Chapter 12 we will discuss scalable approaches for
detecting and resolving conflicts in a replicated system. 
Multi-Leader Replication Topologies
A replication topology describes the communication paths along which writes are
propagated from one node to another. If you have two leaders, like in Figure 5-7,
there is only one plausible topology: leader 1 must send all of its writes to leader 2,
and vice versa. With more than two leaders, various different topologies are possible.
Some examples are illustrated in Figure 5-8.
Figure 5-8. Three example topologies in which multi-leader replication can be set up.
The most general topology is all-to-all (Figure 5-8 [c]), in which every leader sends its
writes to every other leader. However, more restricted topologies are also used: for
example, MySQL by default supports only a circular topology [34], in which each
node receives writes from one node and forwards those writes (plus any writes of its
own) to one other node. Another popular topology has the shape of a star:v one desig‐
nated root node forwards writes to all of the other nodes. The star topology can be
generalized to a tree.
In circular and star topologies, a write may need to pass through several nodes before
it reaches all replicas. Therefore, nodes need to forward data changes they receive
from other nodes. To prevent infinite replication loops, each node is given a unique
identifier, and in the replication log, each write is tagged with the identifiers of all the
nodes it has passed through [43]. When a node receives a data change that is tagged
Multi-Leader Replication 
| 
175
