Ordering Guarantees
We said previously that a linearizable register behaves as if there is only a single copy
of the data, and that every operation appears to take effect atomically at one point in
time. This definition implies that operations are executed in some well-defined order.
We illustrated the ordering in Figure 9-4 by joining up the operations in the order in
which they seem to have executed.
Ordering has been a recurring theme in this book, which suggests that it might be an
important fundamental idea. Let’s briefly recap some of the other contexts in which
we have discussed ordering:
• In Chapter 5 we saw that the main purpose of the leader in single-leader replica‐
tion is to determine the order of writes in the replication log—that is, the order in
which followers apply those writes. If there is no single leader, conflicts can occur
due to concurrent operations (see “Handling Write Conflicts” on page 171).
• Serializability, which we discussed in Chapter 7, is about ensuring that transac‐
tions behave as if they were executed in some sequential order. It can be achieved
by literally executing transactions in that serial order, or by allowing concurrent
execution while preventing serialization conflicts (by locking or aborting).
• The use of timestamps and clocks in distributed systems that we discussed in
Chapter 8 (see “Relying on Synchronized Clocks” on page 291) is another
attempt to introduce order into a disorderly world, for example to determine
which one of two writes happened later.
It turns out that there are deep connections between ordering, linearizability, and
consensus. Although this notion is a bit more theoretical and abstract than the rest of
this book, it is very helpful for clarifying our understanding of what systems can and
cannot do. We will explore this topic in the next few sections.
Ordering and Causality
There are several reasons why ordering keeps coming up, and one of the reasons is
that it helps preserve causality. We have already seen several examples over the
course of this book where causality has been important:
• In “Consistent Prefix Reads” on page 165 (Figure 5-5) we saw an example where
the observer of a conversation saw first the answer to a question, and then the
question being answered. This is confusing because it violates our intuition of
cause and effect: if a question is answered, then clearly the question had to be
there first, because the person giving the answer must have seen the question
(assuming they are not psychic and cannot see into the future). We say that there
is a causal dependency between the question and the answer.
Ordering Guarantees 
| 
339
