approach still requires indexes to fit entirely in memory, though (like the Bitcask
example at the beginning of the chapter).
Further changes to storage engine design will probably be needed if non-volatile
memory (NVM) technologies become more widely adopted [46]. At present, this is a
new area of research, but it is worth keeping an eye on in the future. 
Transaction Processing or Analytics?
In the early days of business data processing, a write to the database typically corre‐
sponded to a commercial transaction taking place: making a sale, placing an order
with a supplier, paying an employee’s salary, etc. As databases expanded into areas
that didn’t involve money changing hands, the term transaction nevertheless stuck,
referring to a group of reads and writes that form a logical unit.
A transaction needn’t necessarily have ACID (atomicity, consis‐
tency, isolation, and durability) properties. Transaction processing
just means allowing clients to make low-latency reads and writes—
as opposed to batch processing jobs, which only run periodically
(for example, once per day). We discuss the ACID properties in
Chapter 7 and batch processing in Chapter 10.
Even though databases started being used for many different kinds of data—com‐
ments on blog posts, actions in a game, contacts in an address book, etc.—the basic
access pattern remained similar to processing business transactions. An application
typically looks up a small number of records by some key, using an index. Records
are inserted or updated based on the user’s input. Because these applications are
interactive, the access pattern became known as online transaction processing
(OLTP).
However, databases also started being increasingly used for data analytics, which has
very different access patterns. Usually an analytic query needs to scan over a huge
number of records, only reading a few columns per record, and calculates aggregate
statistics (such as count, sum, or average) rather than returning the raw data to the
user. For example, if your data is a table of sales transactions, then analytic queries
might be:
• What was the total revenue of each of our stores in January?
• How many more bananas than usual did we sell during our latest promotion?
• Which brand of baby food is most often purchased together with brand X
diapers?
90 
| 
Chapter 3: Storage and Retrieval
