i. A term borrowed from electronics. Every electric circuit has a certain impedance (resistance to alternating
current) on its inputs and outputs. When you connect one circuit’s output to another one’s input, the power
transfer across the connection is maximized if the output and input impedances of the two circuits match. An
impedance mismatch can lead to signal reflections and other troubles.
application code and the database model of tables, rows, and columns. The discon‐
nect between the models is sometimes called an impedance mismatch.i
Object-relational mapping (ORM) frameworks like ActiveRecord and Hibernate
reduce the amount of boilerplate code required for this translation layer, but they
can’t completely hide the differences between the two models.
For example, Figure 2-1 illustrates how a résumé (a LinkedIn profile) could be
expressed in a relational schema. The profile as a whole can be identified by a unique
identifier, user_id. Fields like first_name and last_name appear exactly once per
user, so they can be modeled as columns on the users table. However, most people
have had more than one job in their career (positions), and people may have varying
numbers of periods of education and any number of pieces of contact information.
There is a one-to-many relationship from the user to these items, which can be repre‐
sented in various ways:
• In the traditional SQL model (prior to SQL:1999), the most common normalized
representation is to put positions, education, and contact information in separate
tables, with a foreign key reference to the users table, as in Figure 2-1.
• Later versions of the SQL standard added support for structured datatypes and
XML data; this allowed multi-valued data to be stored within a single row, with
support for querying and indexing inside those documents. These features are
supported to varying degrees by Oracle, IBM DB2, MS SQL Server, and Post‐
greSQL [6, 7]. A JSON datatype is also supported by several databases, including
IBM DB2, MySQL, and PostgreSQL [8].
• A third option is to encode jobs, education, and contact info as a JSON or XML
document, store it on a text column in the database, and let the application inter‐
pret its structure and content. In this setup, you typically cannot use the database
to query for values inside that encoded column.
30 
| 
Chapter 2: Data Models and Query Languages
