iv. The meaning of online in OLAP is unclear; it probably refers to the fact that queries are not just for prede‐
fined reports, but that analysts use the OLAP system interactively for explorative queries.
These queries are often written by business analysts, and feed into reports that help
the management of a company make better decisions (business intelligence). In order
to differentiate this pattern of using databases from transaction processing, it has
been called online analytic processing (OLAP) [47].iv The difference between OLTP
and OLAP is not always clear-cut, but some typical characteristics are listed in
Table 3-1.
Table 3-1. Comparing characteristics of transaction processing versus analytic systems
Property
Transaction processing systems (OLTP)
Analytic systems (OLAP)
Main read pattern
Small number of records per query, fetched by key
Aggregate over large number of records
Main write pattern
Random-access, low-latency writes from user input
Bulk import (ETL) or event stream
Primarily used by
End user/customer, via web application
Internal analyst, for decision support
What data represents
Latest state of data (current point in time)
History of events that happened over time
Dataset size
Gigabytes to terabytes
Terabytes to petabytes
At first, the same databases were used for both transaction processing and analytic
queries. SQL turned out to be quite flexible in this regard: it works well for OLTP-
type queries as well as OLAP-type queries. Nevertheless, in the late 1980s and early
1990s, there was a trend for companies to stop using their OLTP systems for analytics
purposes, and to run the analytics on a separate database instead. This separate data‐
base was called a data warehouse.
Data Warehousing
An enterprise may have dozens of different transaction processing systems: systems
powering the customer-facing website, controlling point of sale (checkout) systems in
physical stores, tracking inventory in warehouses, planning routes for vehicles, man‐
aging suppliers, administering employees, etc. Each of these systems is complex and
needs a team of people to maintain it, so the systems end up operating mostly auton‐
omously from each other.
These OLTP systems are usually expected to be highly available and to process trans‐
actions with low latency, since they are often critical to the operation of the business.
Database administrators therefore closely guard their OLTP databases. They are usu‐
ally reluctant to let business analysts run ad hoc analytic queries on an OLTP data‐
base, since those queries are often expensive, scanning large parts of the dataset,
which can harm the performance of concurrently executing transactions.
Transaction Processing or Analytics? 
| 
91
