The Industrial Revolution came about through major technological and agricultural
advances, and it brought sustained economic growth and significantly improved liv‐
ing standards in the long run. Yet it also came with major problems: pollution of the
air (due to smoke and chemical processes) and the water (from industrial and human
waste) was dreadful. Factory owners lived in splendor, while urban workers often
lived in very poor housing and worked long hours in harsh conditions. Child labor
was common, including dangerous and poorly paid work in mines.
It took a long time before safeguards were established, such as environmental protec‐
tion regulations, safety protocols for workplaces, outlawing child labor, and health
inspections for food. Undoubtedly the cost of doing business increased when facto‐
ries could no longer dump their waste into rivers, sell tainted foods, or exploit work‐
ers. But society as a whole benefited hugely, and few of us would want to return to a
time before those regulations [87].
Just as the Industrial Revolution had a dark side that needed to be managed, our tran‐
sition to the information age has major problems that we need to confront and solve.
I believe that the collection and use of data is one of those problems. In the words of
Bruce Schneier [96]:
Data is the pollution problem of the information age, and protecting privacy is the
environmental challenge. Almost all computers produce information. It stays around,
festering. How we deal with it—how we contain it and how we dispose of it—is central
to the health of our information economy. Just as we look back today at the early deca‐
des of the industrial age and wonder how our ancestors could have ignored pollution
in their rush to build an industrial world, our grandchildren will look back at us during
these early decades of the information age and judge us on how we addressed the chal‐
lenge of data collection and misuse.
We should try to make them proud.
Legislation and self-regulation
Data protection laws might be able to help preserve individuals’ rights. For example,
the 1995 European Data Protection Directive states that personal data must be “col‐
lected for specified, explicit and legitimate purposes and not further processed in a
way incompatible with those purposes,” and furthermore that data must be “ade‐
quate, relevant and not excessive in relation to the purposes for which they are collec‐
ted” [107].
However, it is doubtful whether this legislation is effective in today’s internet context
[108]. These rules run directly counter to the philosophy of Big Data, which is to
maximize data collection, to combine it with other datasets, to experiment and to
explore in order to generate new insights. Exploration means using data for unfore‐
seen purposes, which is the opposite of the “specified and explicit” purposes for
which the user gave their consent (if we can meaningfully speak of consent at all
[109]). Updated regulations are now being developed [89].
542 
| 
Chapter 12: The Future of Data Systems
