no longer just does what the user tells it to do, but it takes on interests of its own,
which may conflict with the user’s interests.
Tracking behavioral data has become increasingly important for user-facing features
of many online services: tracking which search results are clicked helps improve the
ranking of search results; recommending “people who liked X also liked Y” helps
users discover interesting and useful things; A/B tests and user flow analysis can help
indicate how a user interface might be improved. Those features require some
amount of tracking of user behavior, and users benefit from them.
However, depending on a company’s business model, tracking often doesn’t stop
there. If the service is funded through advertising, the advertisers are the actual cus‐
tomers, and the users’ interests take second place. Tracking data becomes more
detailed, analyses become further-reaching, and data is retained for a long time in
order to build up detailed profiles of each person for marketing purposes.
Now the relationship between the company and the user whose data is being collec‐
ted starts looking quite different. The user is given a free service and is coaxed into
engaging with it as much as possible. The tracking of the user serves not primarily
that individual, but rather the needs of the advertisers who are funding the service. I
think this relationship can be appropriately described with a word that has more sin‐
ister connotations: surveillance.
Surveillance
As a thought experiment, try replacing the word data with surveillance, and observe if
common phrases still sound so good [93]. How about this: “In our surveillance-
driven organization we collect real-time surveillance streams and store them in our
surveillance warehouse. Our surveillance scientists use advanced analytics and sur‐
veillance processing in order to derive new insights.”
This thought experiment is unusually polemic for this book, Designing Surveillance-
Intensive Applications, but I think that strong words are needed to emphasize this
point. In our attempts to make software “eat the world” [94], we have built the great‐
est mass surveillance infrastructure the world has ever seen. Rushing toward an Inter‐
net of Things, we are rapidly approaching a world in which every inhabited space
contains at least one internet-connected microphone, in the form of smartphones,
smart TVs, voice-controlled assistant devices, baby monitors, and even children’s
toys that use cloud-based speech recognition. Many of these devices have a terrible
security record [95].
Even the most totalitarian and repressive regimes could only dream of putting a
microphone in every room and forcing every person to constantly carry a device
capable of tracking their location and movements. Yet we apparently voluntarily,
even enthusiastically, throw ourselves into this world of total surveillance. The differ‐
Doing the Right Thing 
| 
537
