return: the relationship between the service and the user is very asymmetric and one-
sided. The terms are set by the service, not by the user [99].
For a user who does not consent to surveillance, the only real alternative is simply not
to use a service. But this choice is not free either: if a service is so popular that it is
“regarded by most people as essential for basic social participation” [99], then it is not
reasonable to expect people to opt out of this service—using it is de facto mandatory.
For example, in most Western social communities, it has become the norm to carry a
smartphone, to use Facebook for socializing, and to use Google for finding informa‐
tion. Especially when a service has network effects, there is a social cost to people
choosing not to use it.
Declining to use a service due to its tracking of users is only an option for the small
number of people who are privileged enough to have the time and knowledge to
understand its privacy policy, and who can afford to potentially miss out on social
participation or professional opportunities that may have arisen if they had participa‐
ted in the service. For people in a less privileged position, there is no meaningful free‐
dom of choice: surveillance becomes inescapable.
Privacy and use of data
Sometimes people claim that “privacy is dead” on the grounds that some users are
willing to post all sorts of things about their lives to social media, sometimes mun‐
dane and sometimes deeply personal. However, this claim is false and rests on a mis‐
understanding of the word privacy.
Having privacy does not mean keeping everything secret; it means having the free‐
dom to choose which things to reveal to whom, what to make public, and what to
keep secret. The right to privacy is a decision right: it enables each person to decide
where they want to be on the spectrum between secrecy and transparency in each sit‐
uation [99]. It is an important aspect of a person’s freedom and autonomy.
When data is extracted from people through surveillance infrastructure, privacy
rights are not necessarily eroded, but rather transferred to the data collector. Compa‐
nies that acquire data essentially say “trust us to do the right thing with your data,”
which means that the right to decide what to reveal and what to keep secret is trans‐
ferred from the individual to the company.
The companies in turn choose to keep much of the outcome of this surveillance
secret, because to reveal it would be perceived as creepy, and would harm their busi‐
ness model (which relies on knowing more about people than other companies do).
Intimate information about users is only revealed indirectly, for example in the form
of tools for targeting advertisements to specific groups of people (such as those suf‐
fering from a particular illness).
Doing the Right Thing 
| 
539
