vii. Technically, Datomic uses 5-tuples rather than triples; the two additional fields are metadata for version‐
ing.
Example 2-7. A more concise way of writing the data in Example 2-6
@prefix : <urn:example:>.
_:lucy     a :Person;   :name "Lucy";          :bornIn _:idaho.
_:idaho    a :Location; :name "Idaho";         :type "state";   :within _:usa.
_:usa      a :Location; :name "United States"; :type "country"; :within _:namerica.
_:namerica a :Location; :name "North America"; :type "continent".
The semantic web
If you read more about triple-stores, you may get sucked into a maelstrom of articles
written about the semantic web. The triple-store data model is completely independ‐
ent of the semantic web—for example, Datomic [40] is a triple-store that does not
claim to have anything to do with it.vii But since the two are so closely linked in many
people’s minds, we should discuss them briefly.
The semantic web is fundamentally a simple and reasonable idea: websites already
publish information as text and pictures for humans to read, so why don’t they also
publish information as machine-readable data for computers to read? The Resource
Description Framework (RDF) [41] was intended as a mechanism for different web‐
sites to publish data in a consistent format, allowing data from different websites to
be automatically combined into a web of data—a kind of internet-wide “database of
everything.”
Unfortunately, the semantic web was overhyped in the early 2000s but so far hasn’t
shown any sign of being realized in practice, which has made many people cynical
about it. It has also suffered from a dizzying plethora of acronyms, overly complex
standards proposals, and hubris.
However, if you look past those failings, there is also a lot of good work that has come
out of the semantic web project. Triples can be a good internal data model for appli‐
cations, even if you have no interest in publishing RDF data on the semantic web.
The RDF data model
The Turtle language we used in Example 2-7 is a human-readable format for RDF
data. Sometimes RDF is also written in an XML format, which does the same thing
much more verbosely—see Example 2-8. Turtle/N3 is preferable as it is much easier
on the eyes, and tools like Apache Jena [42] can automatically convert between differ‐
ent RDF formats if necessary.
Graph-Like Data Models 
| 
57
