called hinted handoff. (Once you find the keys to your house again, your neighbor
politely asks you to get off their couch and go home.)
Sloppy quorums are particularly useful for increasing write availability: as long as any
w nodes are available, the database can accept writes. However, this means that even
when w + r > n, you cannot be sure to read the latest value for a key, because the
latest value may have been temporarily written to some nodes outside of n [47].
Thus, a sloppy quorum actually isn’t a quorum at all in the traditional sense. It’s only
an assurance of durability, namely that the data is stored on w nodes somewhere.
There is no guarantee that a read of r nodes will see it until the hinted handoff has
completed.
Sloppy quorums are optional in all common Dynamo implementations. In Riak they
are enabled by default, and in Cassandra and Voldemort they are disabled by default
[46, 49, 50].
Multi-datacenter operation
We previously discussed cross-datacenter replication as a use case for multi-leader
replication (see “Multi-Leader Replication” on page 168). Leaderless replication is
also suitable for multi-datacenter operation, since it is designed to tolerate conflicting
concurrent writes, network interruptions, and latency spikes.
Cassandra and Voldemort implement their multi-datacenter support within the nor‐
mal leaderless model: the number of replicas n includes nodes in all datacenters, and
in the configuration you can specify how many of the n replicas you want to have in
each datacenter. Each write from a client is sent to all replicas, regardless of datacen‐
ter, but the client usually only waits for acknowledgment from a quorum of nodes
within its local datacenter so that it is unaffected by delays and interruptions on the
cross-datacenter link. The higher-latency writes to other datacenters are often config‐
ured to happen asynchronously, although there is some flexibility in the configura‐
tion [50, 51].
Riak keeps all communication between clients and database nodes local to one data‐
center, so n describes the number of replicas within one datacenter. Cross-datacenter
replication between database clusters happens asynchronously in the background, in
a style that is similar to multi-leader replication [52].
Detecting Concurrent Writes
Dynamo-style databases allow several clients to concurrently write to the same key,
which means that conflicts will occur even if strict quorums are used. The situation is
similar to multi-leader replication (see “Handling Write Conflicts” on page 171),
although in Dynamo-style databases conflicts can also arise during read repair or
hinted handoff.
184 
| 
Chapter 5: Replication
