mation into the surveillance infrastructure [99]. The delightful human creativity and
social relationships that often find expression in online services are cynically exploi‐
ted by the data extraction machine.
The assertion that personal data is a valuable asset is supported by the existence of
data brokers, a shady industry operating in secrecy, purchasing, aggregating, analyz‐
ing, inferring, and reselling intrusive personal data about people, mostly for market‐
ing purposes [90]. Startups are valued by their user numbers, by “eyeballs”—i.e., by
their surveillance capabilities.
Because the data is valuable, many people want it. Of course companies want it—
that’s why they collect it in the first place. But governments want to obtain it too: by
means of secret deals, coercion, legal compulsion, or simply stealing it [101]. When a
company goes bankrupt, the personal data it has collected is one of the assets that get
sold. Moreover, the data is difficult to secure, so breaches happen disconcertingly
often [102].
These observations have led critics to saying that data is not just an asset, but a “toxic
asset” [101], or at least “hazardous material” [103]. Even if we think that we are capa‐
ble of preventing abuse of data, whenever we collect data, we need to balance the ben‐
efits with the risk of it falling into the wrong hands: computer systems may be
compromised by criminals or hostile foreign intelligence services, data may be leaked
by insiders, the company may fall into the hands of unscrupulous management that
does not share our values, or the country may be taken over by a regime that has no
qualms about compelling us to hand over the data.
When collecting data, we need to consider not just today’s political environment, but
all possible future governments. There is no guarantee that every government elected
in future will respect human rights and civil liberties, so “it is poor civic hygiene to
install technologies that could someday facilitate a police state” [104].
“Knowledge is power,” as the old adage goes. And furthermore, “to scrutinize others
while avoiding scrutiny oneself is one of the most important forms of power” [105].
This is why totalitarian governments want surveillance: it gives them the power to
control the population. Although today’s technology companies are not overtly seek‐
ing political power, the data and knowledge they have accumulated nevertheless gives
them a lot of power over our lives, much of which is surreptitious, outside of public
oversight [106].
Remembering the Industrial Revolution
Data is the defining feature of the information age. The internet, data storage, pro‐
cessing, and software-driven automation are having a major impact on the global
economy and human society. As our daily lives and social organization have changed
in the past decade, and will probably continue to radically change in the coming dec‐
ades, comparisons to the Industrial Revolution come to mind [87, 96].
Doing the Right Thing 
| 
541
