iv. Peering agreements between internet service providers and the establishment of routes through the Bor‐
der Gateway Protocol (BGP), bear closer resemblance to circuit switching than IP itself. At this level, it is pos‐
sible to buy dedicated bandwidth. However, internet routing operates at the level of networks, not individual
connections between hosts, and at a much longer timescale.
However, such quality of service is currently not enabled in multi-tenant datacenters
and public clouds, or when communicating via the internet.iv Currently deployed
technology does not allow us to make any guarantees about delays or reliability of the
network: we have to assume that network congestion, queueing, and unbounded
delays will happen. Consequently, there’s no “correct” value for timeouts—they need
to be determined experimentally.
Unreliable Clocks
Clocks and time are important. Applications depend on clocks in various ways to
answer questions like the following:
1. Has this request timed out yet?
2. What’s the 99th percentile response time of this service?
3. How many queries per second did this service handle on average in the last five
minutes?
4. How long did the user spend on our site?
5. When was this article published?
6. At what date and time should the reminder email be sent?
7. When does this cache entry expire?
8. What is the timestamp on this error message in the log file?
Examples 1–4 measure durations (e.g., the time interval between a request being sent
and a response being received), whereas examples 5–8 describe points in time (events
that occur on a particular date, at a particular time).
In a distributed system, time is a tricky business, because communication is not
instantaneous: it takes time for a message to travel across the network from one
machine to another. The time when a message is received is always later than the
time when it is sent, but due to variable delays in the network, we don’t know how
much later. This fact sometimes makes it difficult to determine the order in which
things happened when multiple machines are involved.
Moreover, each machine on the network has its own clock, which is an actual hard‐
ware device: usually a quartz crystal oscillator. These devices are not perfectly accu‐
rate, so each machine has its own notion of time, which may be slightly faster or
Unreliable Clocks 
| 
287
