Replication and Durability
Historically, durability meant writing to an archive tape. Then it was understood as
writing to a disk or SSD. More recently, it has been adapted to mean replication.
Which implementation is better?
The truth is, nothing is perfect:
• If you write to disk and the machine dies, even though your data isn’t lost, it is
inaccessible until you either fix the machine or transfer the disk to another
machine. Replicated systems can remain available.
• A correlated fault—a power outage or a bug that crashes every node on a particu‐
lar input—can knock out all replicas at once (see “Reliability” on page 6), losing
any data that is only in memory. Writing to disk is therefore still relevant for in-
memory databases.
• In an asynchronously replicated system, recent writes may be lost when the
leader becomes unavailable (see “Handling Node Outages” on page 156).
• When the power is suddenly cut, SSDs in particular have been shown to some‐
times violate the guarantees they are supposed to provide: even fsync isn’t guar‐
anteed to work correctly [12]. Disk firmware can have bugs, just like any other
kind of software [13, 14].
• Subtle interactions between the storage engine and the filesystem implementa‐
tion can lead to bugs that are hard to track down, and may cause files on disk to
be corrupted after a crash [15, 16].
• Data on disk can gradually become corrupted without this being detected [17]. If
data has been corrupted for some time, replicas and recent backups may also be
corrupted. In this case, you will need to try to restore the data from a historical
backup.
• One study of SSDs found that between 30% and 80% of drives develop at least
one bad block during the first four years of operation [18]. Magnetic hard drives
have a lower rate of bad sectors, but a higher rate of complete failure than SSDs.
• If an SSD is disconnected from power, it can start losing data within a few weeks,
depending on the temperature [19].
In practice, there is no one technique that can provide absolute guarantees. There are
only various risk-reduction techniques, including writing to disk, replicating to
remote machines, and backups—and they can and should be used together. As
always, it’s wise to take any theoretical “guarantees” with a healthy grain of salt.
The Slippery Concept of a Transaction 
| 
227
