I could imagine integrity-checking and auditing algorithms, like those of certificate
transparency and distributed ledgers, becoming more widely used in data systems in
general. Some work will be needed to make them equally scalable as systems without
cryptographic auditing, and to keep the performance penalty as low as possible. But I
think this is an interesting area to watch in the future. 
Doing the Right Thing
In the final section of this book, I would like to take a step back. Throughout this
book we have examined a wide range of different architectures for data systems, eval‐
uated their pros and cons, and explored techniques for building reliable, scalable, and
maintainable applications. However, we have left out an important and fundamental
part of the discussion, which I would now like to fill in.
Every system is built for a purpose; every action we take has both intended and unin‐
tended consequences. The purpose may be as simple as making money, but the con‐
sequences for the world may reach far beyond that original purpose. We, the
engineers building these systems, have a responsibility to carefully consider those
consequences and to consciously decide what kind of world we want to live in.
We talk about data as an abstract thing, but remember that many datasets are about
people: their behavior, their interests, their identity. We must treat such data with
humanity and respect. Users are humans too, and human dignity is paramount.
Software development increasingly involves making important ethical choices. There
are guidelines to help software engineers navigate these issues, such as the ACM’s
Software Engineering Code of Ethics and Professional Practice [77], but they are
rarely discussed, applied, and enforced in practice. As a result, engineers and product
managers sometimes take a very cavalier attitude to privacy and potential negative
consequences of their products [78, 79, 80].
A technology is not good or bad in itself—what matters is how it is used and how it
affects people. This is true for a software system like a search engine in much the
same way as it is for a weapon like a gun. I think it is not sufficient for software engi‐
neers to focus exclusively on the technology and ignore its consequences: the ethical
responsibility is ours to bear also. Reasoning about ethics is difficult, but it is too
important to ignore.
Predictive Analytics
For example, predictive analytics is a major part of the “Big Data” hype. Using data
analysis to predict the weather, or the spread of diseases, is one thing [81]; it is
another matter to predict whether a convict is likely to reoffend, whether an applicant
for a loan is likely to default, or whether an insurance customer is likely to make
expensive claims. The latter have a direct effect on individual people’s lives.
Doing the Right Thing 
| 
533
