How to Contact Us
Please address comments and questions concerning this book to the publisher:
O’Reilly Media, Inc.
1005 Gravenstein Highway North
Sebastopol, CA 95472
800-998-9938 (in the United States or Canada)
707-829-0515 (international or local)
707-829-0104 (fax)
We have a web page for this book, where we list errata, examples, and any additional
information. You can access this page at http://bit.ly/designing-data-intensive-apps.
To comment or ask technical questions about this book, send email to bookques‐
tions@oreilly.com.
For more information about our books, courses, conferences, and news, see our web‐
site at http://www.oreilly.com.
Find us on Facebook: http://facebook.com/oreilly
Follow us on Twitter: http://twitter.com/oreillymedia
Watch us on YouTube: http://www.youtube.com/oreillymedia
Acknowledgments
This book is an amalgamation and systematization of a large number of other peo‐
ple’s ideas and knowledge, combining experience from both academic research and
industrial practice. In computing we tend to be attracted to things that are new and
shiny, but I think we have a huge amount to learn from things that have been done
before. This book has over 800 references to articles, blog posts, talks, documenta‐
tion, and more, and they have been an invaluable learning resource for me. I am very
grateful to the authors of this material for sharing their knowledge.
I have also learned a lot from personal conversations, thanks to a large number of
people who have taken the time to discuss ideas or patiently explain things to me. In
particular, I would like to thank Joe Adler, Ross Anderson, Peter Bailis, Márton
Balassi, Alastair Beresford, Mark Callaghan, Mat Clayton, Patrick Collison, Sean
Cribbs, Shirshanka Das, Niklas Ekström, Stephan Ewen, Alan Fekete, Gyula Fóra,
Camille Fournier, Andres Freund, John Garbutt, Seth Gilbert, Tom Haggett, Pat Hel‐
land, Joe Hellerstein, Jakob Homan, Heidi Howard, John Hugg, Julian Hyde, Conrad
Irwin, Evan Jones, Flavio Junqueira, Jessica Kerr, Kyle Kingsbury, Jay Kreps, Carl
Lerche, Nicolas Liochon, Steve Loughran, Lee Mallabone, Nathan Marz, Caitie
xviii 
| 
Preface
