viii. Datomic and Cascalog use a Clojure S-expression syntax for Datalog. In the following examples we use a
Prolog syntax, which is a little easier to read, but this makes no functional difference.
Graph Databases Compared to the Network Model
In “Are Document Databases Repeating History?” on page 36 we discussed how
CODASYL and the relational model competed to solve the problem of many-to-
many relationships in IMS. At first glance, CODASYL’s network model looks similar
to the graph model. Are graph databases the second coming of CODASYL in
disguise?
No. They differ in several important ways:
• In CODASYL, a database had a schema that specified which record type could be
nested within which other record type. In a graph database, there is no such
restriction: any vertex can have an edge to any other vertex. This gives much
greater flexibility for applications to adapt to changing requirements.
• In CODASYL, the only way to reach a particular record was to traverse one of
the access paths to it. In a graph database, you can refer directly to any vertex by
its unique ID, or you can use an index to find vertices with a particular value.
• In CODASYL, the children of a record were an ordered set, so the database had
to maintain that ordering (which had consequences for the storage layout) and
applications that inserted new records into the database had to worry about the
positions of the new records in these sets. In a graph database, vertices and edges
are not ordered (you can only sort the results when making a query).
• In CODASYL, all queries were imperative, difficult to write and easily broken by
changes in the schema. In a graph database, you can write your traversal in
imperative code if you want to, but most graph databases also support high-level,
declarative query languages such as Cypher or SPARQL.
The Foundation: Datalog
Datalog is a much older language than SPARQL or Cypher, having been studied
extensively by academics in the 1980s [44, 45, 46]. It is less well known among soft‐
ware engineers, but it is nevertheless important, because it provides the foundation
that later query languages build upon.
In practice, Datalog is used in a few data systems: for example, it is the query lan‐
guage of Datomic [40], and Cascalog [47] is a Datalog implementation for querying
large datasets in Hadoop.viii
60 
| 
Chapter 2: Data Models and Query Languages
