needs to send writes to multiple partitions (if the index is term-partitioned) or send
reads to all partitions (if the index is document-partitioned). Such cross-partition
communication is also most reliable and scalable if the index is maintained asynchro‐
nously [8] (see also “Multi-partition data processing” on page 514).
Reprocessing data for application evolution
When maintaining derived data, batch and stream processing are both useful. Stream
processing allows changes in the input to be reflected in derived views with low delay,
whereas batch processing allows large amounts of accumulated historical data to be
reprocessed in order to derive new views onto an existing dataset.
In particular, reprocessing existing data provides a good mechanism for maintaining
a system, evolving it to support new features and changed requirements (see Chap‐
ter 4). Without reprocessing, schema evolution is limited to simple changes like
adding a new optional field to a record, or adding a new type of record. This is the
case both in a schema-on-write and in a schema-on-read context (see “Schema flexi‐
bility in the document model” on page 39). On the other hand, with reprocessing it is
possible to restructure a dataset into a completely different model in order to better
serve new requirements.
Schema Migrations on Railways
Large-scale “schema migrations” occur in noncomputer systems as well. For example,
in the early days of railway building in 19th-century England there were various com‐
peting standards for the gauge (the distance between the two rails). Trains built for
one gauge couldn’t run on tracks of another gauge, which restricted the possible
interconnections in the train network [9].
After a single standard gauge was finally decided upon in 1846, tracks with other
gauges had to be converted—but how do you do this without shutting down the train
line for months or years? The solution is to first convert the track to dual gauge or
mixed gauge by adding a third rail. This conversion can be done gradually, and when
it is done, trains of both gauges can run on the line, using two of the three rails. Even‐
tually, once all trains have been converted to the standard gauge, the rail providing
the nonstandard gauge can be removed.
“Reprocessing” the existing tracks in this way, and allowing the old and new versions
to exist side by side, makes it possible to change the gauge gradually over the course
of years. Nevertheless, it is an expensive undertaking, which is why nonstandard
gauges still exist today. For example, the BART system in the San Francisco Bay Area
uses a different gauge from the majority of the US.
496 
| 
Chapter 12: The Future of Data Systems
