vi. IMS and CODASYL both used imperative query APIs. Applications typically used COBOL code to iterate
over records in the database, one record at a time [2, 16].
In a web browser, using declarative CSS styling is much better than manipulating
styles imperatively in JavaScript. Similarly, in databases, declarative query languages
like SQL turned out to be much better than imperative query APIs.vi
MapReduce Querying
MapReduce is a programming model for processing large amounts of data in bulk
across many machines, popularized by Google [33]. A limited form of MapReduce is
supported by some NoSQL datastores, including MongoDB and CouchDB, as a
mechanism for performing read-only queries across many documents.
MapReduce in general is described in more detail in Chapter 10. For now, we’ll just
briefly discuss MongoDB’s use of the model.
MapReduce is neither a declarative query language nor a fully imperative query API,
but somewhere in between: the logic of the query is expressed with snippets of code,
which are called repeatedly by the processing framework. It is based on the map (also
known as collect) and reduce (also known as fold or inject) functions that exist
in many functional programming languages.
To give an example, imagine you are a marine biologist, and you add an observation
record to your database every time you see animals in the ocean. Now you want to
generate a report saying how many sharks you have sighted per month.
In PostgreSQL you might express that query like this:
SELECT date_trunc('month', observation_timestamp) AS observation_month, 
       sum(num_animals) AS total_animals
FROM observations
WHERE family = 'Sharks'
GROUP BY observation_month;
The date_trunc('month', timestamp) function determines the calendar month
containing timestamp, and returns another timestamp representing the begin‐
ning of that month. In other words, it rounds a timestamp down to the nearest
month.
This query first filters the observations to only show species in the Sharks family,
then groups the observations by the calendar month in which they occurred, and
finally adds up the number of animals seen in all observations in that month.
The same can be expressed with MongoDB’s MapReduce feature as follows:
46 
| 
Chapter 2: Data Models and Query Languages
