more detail on the problems with distributed systems (Chapter 8) and what it
means to achieve consistency and consensus in a distributed system (Chapter 9).
3. In Part III, we discuss systems that derive some datasets from other datasets.
Derived data often occurs in heterogeneous systems: when there is no one data‐
base that can do everything well, applications need to integrate several different
databases, caches, indexes, and so on. In Chapter 10 we start with a batch pro‐
cessing approach to derived data, and we build upon it with stream processing in
Chapter 11. Finally, in Chapter 12 we put everything together and discuss
approaches for building reliable, scalable, and maintainable applications in the
future.
References and Further Reading
Most of what we discuss in this book has already been said elsewhere in some form or
another—in conference presentations, research papers, blog posts, code, bug trackers,
mailing lists, and engineering folklore. This book summarizes the most important
ideas from many different sources, and it includes pointers to the original literature
throughout the text. The references at the end of each chapter are a great resource if
you want to explore an area in more depth, and most of them are freely available
online.
O’Reilly Safari
Safari (formerly Safari Books Online) is a membership-based
training and reference platform for enterprise, government,
educators, and individuals.
Members have access to thousands of books, training videos, Learning Paths, interac‐
tive tutorials, and curated playlists from over 250 publishers, including O’Reilly
Media, Harvard Business Review, Prentice Hall Professional, Addison-Wesley Pro‐
fessional, Microsoft Press, Sams, Que, Peachpit Press, Adobe, Focal Press, Cisco
Press, John Wiley & Sons, Syngress, Morgan Kaufmann, IBM Redbooks, Packt,
Adobe Press, FT Press, Apress, Manning, New Riders, McGraw-Hill, Jones & Bartlett,
and Course Technology, among others.
For more information, please visit http://oreilly.com/safari.
Preface 
| 
xvii
