only uses read repair (no anti-entropy), there is no limit to how old a value might be
—if a value is only infrequently read, the value returned by a stale replica may be
ancient.
There has been some research on measuring replica staleness in databases with lead‐
erless replication and predicting the expected percentage of stale reads depending on
the parameters n, w, and r [48]. This is unfortunately not yet common practice, but it
would be good to include staleness measurements in the standard set of metrics for
databases. Eventual consistency is a deliberately vague guarantee, but for operability
it’s important to be able to quantify “eventual.” 
Sloppy Quorums and Hinted Handoff
Databases with appropriately configured quorums can tolerate the failure of individ‐
ual nodes without the need for failover. They can also tolerate individual nodes going
slow, because requests don’t have to wait for all n nodes to respond—they can return
when w or r nodes have responded. These characteristics make databases with leader‐
less replication appealing for use cases that require high availability and low latency,
and that can tolerate occasional stale reads.
However, quorums (as described so far) are not as fault-tolerant as they could be. A
network interruption can easily cut off a client from a large number of database
nodes. Although those nodes are alive, and other clients may be able to connect to
them, to a client that is cut off from the database nodes, they might as well be dead. In
this situation, it’s likely that fewer than w or r reachable nodes remain, so the client
can no longer reach a quorum.
In a large cluster (with significantly more than n nodes) it’s likely that the client can
connect to some database nodes during the network interruption, just not to the
nodes that it needs to assemble a quorum for a particular value. In that case, database
designers face a trade-off:
• Is it better to return errors to all requests for which we cannot reach a quorum of
w or r nodes?
• Or should we accept writes anyway, and write them to some nodes that are
reachable but aren’t among the n nodes on which the value usually lives?
The latter is known as a sloppy quorum [37]: writes and reads still require w and r
successful responses, but those may include nodes that are not among the designated
n “home” nodes for a value. By analogy, if you lock yourself out of your house, you
may knock on the neighbor’s door and ask whether you may stay on their couch tem‐
porarily.
Once the network interruption is fixed, any writes that one node temporarily
accepted on behalf of another node are sent to the appropriate “home” nodes. This is
Leaderless Replication 
| 
183
