formance. In a scalable system, you can add processing capacity in order to remain
reliable under high load.
Maintainability has many facets, but in essence it’s about making life better for the
engineering and operations teams who need to work with the system. Good abstrac‐
tions can help reduce complexity and make the system easier to modify and adapt for
new use cases. Good operability means having good visibility into the system’s health,
and having effective ways of managing it.
There is unfortunately no easy fix for making applications reliable, scalable, or main‐
tainable. However, there are certain patterns and techniques that keep reappearing in
different kinds of applications. In the next few chapters we will take a look at some
examples of data systems and analyze how they work toward those goals.
Later in the book, in Part III, we will look at patterns for systems that consist of sev‐
eral components working together, such as the one in Figure 1-1.
References
[1] Michael Stonebraker and Uğur Çetintemel: “‘One Size Fits All’: An Idea Whose
Time Has Come and Gone,” at 21st International Conference on Data Engineering
(ICDE), April 2005.
[2] Walter L. Heimerdinger and Charles B. Weinstock: “A Conceptual Framework
for System Fault Tolerance,” Technical Report CMU/SEI-92-TR-033, Software Engi‐
neering Institute, Carnegie Mellon University, October 1992.
[3] Ding Yuan, Yu Luo, Xin Zhuang, et al.: “Simple Testing Can Prevent Most Criti‐
cal Failures: An Analysis of Production Failures in Distributed Data-Intensive Sys‐
tems,” at 11th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation
(OSDI), October 2014.
[4] Yury Izrailevsky and Ariel Tseitlin: “The Netflix Simian Army,” techblog.net‐
flix.com, July 19, 2011.
[5] Daniel Ford, François Labelle, Florentina I. Popovici, et al.: “Availability in Glob‐
ally Distributed Storage Systems,” at 9th USENIX Symposium on Operating Systems
Design and Implementation (OSDI), October 2010.
[6] Brian Beach: “Hard Drive Reliability Update – Sep 2014,” backblaze.com, Septem‐
ber 23, 2014.
[7] Laurie Voss: “AWS: The Good, the Bad and the Ugly,” blog.awe.sm, December 18,
2012.
Summary 
| 
23
