Graph-Like Data Models
We saw earlier that many-to-many relationships are an important distinguishing fea‐
ture between different data models. If your application has mostly one-to-many rela‐
tionships (tree-structured data) or no relationships between records, the document
model is appropriate.
But what if many-to-many relationships are very common in your data? The rela‐
tional model can handle simple cases of many-to-many relationships, but as the con‐
nections within your data become more complex, it becomes more natural to start
modeling your data as a graph.
A graph consists of two kinds of objects: vertices (also known as nodes or entities) and
edges (also known as relationships or arcs). Many kinds of data can be modeled as a
graph. Typical examples include:
Social graphs
Vertices are people, and edges indicate which people know each other.
The web graph
Vertices are web pages, and edges indicate HTML links to other pages.
Road or rail networks
Vertices are junctions, and edges represent the roads or railway lines between
them.
Well-known algorithms can operate on these graphs: for example, car navigation sys‐
tems search for the shortest path between two points in a road network, and
PageRank can be used on the web graph to determine the popularity of a web page
and thus its ranking in search results.
In the examples just given, all the vertices in a graph represent the same kind of thing
(people, web pages, or road junctions, respectively). However, graphs are not limited
to such homogeneous data: an equally powerful use of graphs is to provide a consis‐
tent way of storing completely different types of objects in a single datastore. For
example, Facebook maintains a single graph with many different types of vertices and
edges: vertices represent people, locations, events, checkins, and comments made by
users; edges indicate which people are friends with each other, which checkin hap‐
pened in which location, who commented on which post, who attended which event,
and so on [35].
In this section we will use the example shown in Figure 2-5. It could be taken from a
social network or a genealogical database: it shows two people, Lucy from Idaho and
Alain from Beaune, France. They are married and living in London.
Graph-Like Data Models 
| 
49
