social characteristics of people’s lives. On the one hand, this power could be used to
focus aid and support to help those people who most need it. On the other hand, it is
sometimes used by predatory business seeking to identify vulnerable people and sell
them risky products such as high-cost loans and worthless college degrees [87, 90].
Feedback loops
Even with predictive applications that have less immediately far-reaching effects on
people, such as recommendation systems, there are difficult issues that we must con‐
front. When services become good at predicting what content users want to see, they
may end up showing people only opinions they already agree with, leading to echo
chambers in which stereotypes, misinformation, and polarization can breed. We are
already seeing the impact of social media echo chambers on election campaigns [91].
When predictive analytics affect people’s lives, particularly pernicious problems arise
due to self-reinforcing feedback loops. For example, consider the case of employers
using credit scores to evaluate potential hires. You may be a good worker with a good
credit score, but suddenly find yourself in financial difficulties due to a misfortune
outside of your control. As you miss payments on your bills, your credit score suffers,
and you will be less likely to find work. Joblessness pushes you toward poverty, which
further worsens your scores, making it even harder to find employment [87]. It’s a
downward spiral due to poisonous assumptions, hidden behind a camouflage of
mathematical rigor and data.
We can’t always predict when such feedback loops happen. However, many conse‐
quences can be predicted by thinking about the entire system (not just the computer‐
ized parts, but also the people interacting with it)—an approach known as systems
thinking [92]. We can try to understand how a data analysis system responds to dif‐
ferent behaviors, structures, or characteristics. Does the system reinforce and amplify
existing differences between people (e.g., making the rich richer or the poor poorer),
or does it try to combat injustice? And even with the best intentions, we must beware
of unintended consequences. 
Privacy and Tracking
Besides the problems of predictive analytics—i.e., using data to make automated
decisions about people—there are ethical problems with data collection itself. What is
the relationship between the organizations collecting data and the people whose data
is being collected?
When a system only stores data that a user has explicitly entered, because they want
the system to store and process it in a certain way, the system is performing a service
for the user: the user is the customer. But when a user’s activity is tracked and logged
as a side effect of other things they are doing, the relationship is less clear. The service
536 
| 
Chapter 12: The Future of Data Systems
