ance of partial failures into software, so that the system as a whole may continue
functioning even when some of its constituent parts are broken.
To tolerate faults, the first step is to detect them, but even that is hard. Most systems
don’t have an accurate mechanism of detecting whether a node has failed, so most
distributed algorithms rely on timeouts to determine whether a remote node is still
available. However, timeouts can’t distinguish between network and node failures,
and variable network delay sometimes causes a node to be falsely suspected of crash‐
ing. Moreover, sometimes a node can be in a degraded state: for example, a Gigabit
network interface could suddenly drop to 1 Kb/s throughput due to a driver bug [94].
Such a node that is “limping” but not dead can be even more difficult to deal with
than a cleanly failed node.
Once a fault is detected, making a system tolerate it is not easy either: there is no
global variable, no shared memory, no common knowledge or any other kind of
shared state between the machines. Nodes can’t even agree on what time it is, let
alone on anything more profound. The only way information can flow from one
node to another is by sending it over the unreliable network. Major decisions cannot
be safely made by a single node, so we require protocols that enlist help from other
nodes and try to get a quorum to agree.
If you’re used to writing software in the idealized mathematical perfection of a single
computer, where the same operation always deterministically returns the same result,
then moving to the messy physical reality of distributed systems can be a bit of a
shock. Conversely, distributed systems engineers will often regard a problem as triv‐
ial if it can be solved on a single computer [5], and indeed a single computer can do a
lot nowadays [95]. If you can avoid opening Pandora’s box and simply keep things on
a single machine, it is generally worth doing so.
However, as discussed in the introduction to Part II, scalability is not the only reason
for wanting to use a distributed system. Fault tolerance and low latency (by placing
data geographically close to users) are equally important goals, and those things can‐
not be achieved with a single node.
In this chapter we also went on some tangents to explore whether the unreliability of
networks, clocks, and processes is an inevitable law of nature. We saw that it isn’t: it
is possible to give hard real-time response guarantees and bounded delays in net‐
works, but doing so is very expensive and results in lower utilization of hardware
resources. Most non-safety-critical systems choose cheap and unreliable over expen‐
sive and reliable.
We also touched on supercomputers, which assume reliable components and thus
have to be stopped and restarted entirely when a component does fail. By contrast,
distributed systems can run forever without being interrupted at the service level,
because all faults and maintenance can be handled at the node level—at least in
Summary 
| 
311
