ii. A term borrowed from electronic engineering, where it describes the number of logic gate inputs that are
attached to another gate’s output. The output needs to supply enough current to drive all the attached inputs.
In transaction processing systems, we use it to describe the number of requests to other services that we need
to make in order to serve one incoming request.
scalability means considering questions like “If the system grows in a particular way,
what are our options for coping with the growth?” and “How can we add computing
resources to handle the additional load?”
Describing Load
First, we need to succinctly describe the current load on the system; only then can we
discuss growth questions (what happens if our load doubles?). Load can be described
with a few numbers which we call load parameters. The best choice of parameters
depends on the architecture of your system: it may be requests per second to a web
server, the ratio of reads to writes in a database, the number of simultaneously active
users in a chat room, the hit rate on a cache, or something else. Perhaps the average
case is what matters for you, or perhaps your bottleneck is dominated by a small
number of extreme cases.
To make this idea more concrete, let’s consider Twitter as an example, using data
published in November 2012 [16]. Two of Twitter’s main operations are:
Post tweet
A user can publish a new message to their followers (4.6k requests/sec on aver‐
age, over 12k requests/sec at peak).
Home timeline
A user can view tweets posted by the people they follow (300k requests/sec).
Simply handling 12,000 writes per second (the peak rate for posting tweets) would be
fairly easy. However, Twitter’s scaling challenge is not primarily due to tweet volume,
but due to fan-outii—each user follows many people, and each user is followed by
many people. There are broadly two ways of implementing these two operations:
1. Posting a tweet simply inserts the new tweet into a global collection of tweets.
When a user requests their home timeline, look up all the people they follow,
find all the tweets for each of those users, and merge them (sorted by time). In a
relational database like in Figure 1-2, you could write a query such as:
SELECT tweets.*, users.* FROM tweets
  JOIN users   ON tweets.sender_id    = users.id
  JOIN follows ON follows.followee_id = users.id
  WHERE follows.follower_id = current_user
Scalability 
| 
11
