ix. The term atomic broadcast is traditional, but it is very confusing as it’s inconsistent with other uses of the
word atomic: it has nothing to do with atomicity in ACID transactions and is only indirectly related to atomic
operations (in the sense of multi-threaded programming) or atomic registers (linearizable storage). The term
total order multicast is another synonym.
This idea of knowing when your total order is finalized is captured in the topic of
total order broadcast. 
Total Order Broadcast
If your program runs only on a single CPU core, it is easy to define a total ordering of
operations: it is simply the order in which they were executed by the CPU. However,
in a distributed system, getting all nodes to agree on the same total ordering of opera‐
tions is tricky. In the last section we discussed ordering by timestamps or sequence
numbers, but found that it is not as powerful as single-leader replication (if you use
timestamp ordering to implement a uniqueness constraint, you cannot tolerate any
faults).
As discussed, single-leader replication determines a total order of operations by
choosing one node as the leader and sequencing all operations on a single CPU core
on the leader. The challenge then is how to scale the system if the throughput is
greater than a single leader can handle, and also how to handle failover if the leader
fails (see “Handling Node Outages” on page 156). In the distributed systems litera‐
ture, this problem is known as total order broadcast or atomic broadcast [25, 57, 58].ix
Scope of ordering guarantee
Partitioned databases with a single leader per partition often main‐
tain ordering only per partition, which means they cannot offer
consistency guarantees (e.g., consistent snapshots, foreign key ref‐
erences) across partitions. Total ordering across all partitions is
possible, but requires additional coordination [59].
Total order broadcast is usually described as a protocol for exchanging messages
between nodes. Informally, it requires that two safety properties always be satisfied:
Reliable delivery
No messages are lost: if a message is delivered to one node, it is delivered to all
nodes.
Totally ordered delivery
Messages are delivered to every node in the same order.
A correct algorithm for total order broadcast must ensure that the reliability and
ordering properties are always satisfied, even if a node or the network is faulty. Of
348 
| 
Chapter 9: Consistency and Consensus
