Checking a token on the server side may seem like a downside, but it is arguably a
good thing: it is unwise for a service to assume that its clients will always be well
behaved, because the clients are often run by people whose priorities are very differ‐
ent from the priorities of the people running the service [76]. Thus, it is a good idea
for any service to protect itself from accidentally abusive clients. 
Byzantine Faults
Fencing tokens can detect and block a node that is inadvertently acting in error (e.g.,
because it hasn’t yet found out that its lease has expired). However, if the node delib‐
erately wanted to subvert the system’s guarantees, it could easily do so by sending
messages with a fake fencing token.
In this book we assume that nodes are unreliable but honest: they may be slow or
never respond (due to a fault), and their state may be outdated (due to a GC pause or
network delays), but we assume that if a node does respond, it is telling the “truth”: to
the best of its knowledge, it is playing by the rules of the protocol.
Distributed systems problems become much harder if there is a risk that nodes may
“lie” (send arbitrary faulty or corrupted responses)—for example, if a node may claim
to have received a particular message when in fact it didn’t. Such behavior is known
as a Byzantine fault, and the problem of reaching consensus in this untrusting envi‐
ronment is known as the Byzantine Generals Problem [77].
The Byzantine Generals Problem
The Byzantine Generals Problem is a generalization of the so-called Two Generals
Problem [78], which imagines a situation in which two army generals need to agree
on a battle plan. As they have set up camp on two different sites, they can only com‐
municate by messenger, and the messengers sometimes get delayed or lost (like pack‐
ets in a network). We will discuss this problem of consensus in Chapter 9.
In the Byzantine version of the problem, there are n generals who need to agree, and
their endeavor is hampered by the fact that there are some traitors in their midst.
Most of the generals are loyal, and thus send truthful messages, but the traitors may
try to deceive and confuse the others by sending fake or untrue messages (while try‐
ing to remain undiscovered). It is not known in advance who the traitors are.
Byzantium was an ancient Greek city that later became Constantinople, in the place
which is now Istanbul in Turkey. There isn’t any historic evidence that the generals of
Byzantium were any more prone to intrigue and conspiracy than those elsewhere.
Rather, the name is derived from Byzantine in the sense of excessively complicated,
bureaucratic, devious, which was used in politics long before computers [79]. Lamp‐
ort wanted to choose a nationality that would not offend any readers, and he was
advised that calling it The Albanian Generals Problem was not such a good idea [80].
304 
| 
Chapter 8: The Trouble with Distributed Systems
