If you don’t have a lot of pre-existing knowledge about these things, we recommend
the following resources:
• https://docker.io
• https://kubernetes.io
• https://dcos.io
Using Code Examples
Supplemental material (code examples, exercises, etc.) is available for download at
https://github.com/brendandburns/designing-distributed-systems.
This book is here to help you get your job done. In general, if example code is offered
with this book, you may use it in your programs and documentation. You do not
need to contact us for permission unless you’re reproducing a significant portion of
the code. For example, writing a program that uses several chunks of code from this
book does not require permission. Selling or distributing a CD-ROM of examples
from O’Reilly books does require permission. Answering a question by citing this
book and quoting example code does not require permission. Incorporating a signifi‐
cant amount of example code from this book into your product’s documentation does
require permission.
We appreciate, but do not require, attribution. An attribution usually includes the
title, author, publisher, and ISBN. For example: “Designing Distributed Systems by
Brendan Burns (O’Reilly). Copyright 2018 Brendan Burns, 978-1-491-98364-5.”
If you feel your use of code examples falls outside fair use or the permission given
above, feel free to contact us at permissions@oreilly.com.
O’Reilly Safari
Safari (formerly Safari Books Online) is a membership-based
training and reference platform for enterprise, government,
educators, and individuals.
Members have access to thousands of books, training videos, Learning Paths, interac‐
tive tutorials, and curated playlists from over 250 publishers, including O’Reilly
Media, Harvard Business Review, Prentice Hall Professional, Addison-Wesley Profes‐
sional, Microsoft Press, Sams, Que, Peachpit Press, Adobe, Focal Press, Cisco Press,
John Wiley & Sons, Syngress, Morgan Kaufmann, IBM Redbooks, Packt, Adobe
Press, FT Press, Apress, Manning, New Riders, McGraw-Hill, Jones & Bartlett, and
Course Technology, among others.
x 
| 
Preface
