Figure 7-2. Example of a term-sharded scatter/gather system
Scatter/Gather with Leaf Sharding
While applying the replicated data scatter/gather pattern allows you to reduce the
processing time required for handling user requests, it doesn’t allow you to scale
beyond an amount of data that can be held in the memory or disk of a single
machine. Much like the replicated serving pattern that was previously described, it is
simple to build a replicated scatter/gather system. But at a certain data size, it is neces‐
sary to introduce sharding in order to build a system that can hold more data than
can be stored on a single machine.
Previously, when sharding was introduced to scale replicated systems, the sharding
was done at a per-request level. Some part of the request was used to determine
where the request was sent. That replica then handled all of the processing for the
request and the response was handed back to the user. Instead, with scatter/gather
sharding, the request is sent to all of the leaf nodes (or shards) in the system. Each
leaf node processes the request using the data that it has loaded in its shard. This par‐
tial response is then returned to the root node that requested data, and that root node
merges all of the responses together to form a comprehensive response for the user.
As a concrete example of this sort of architecture, consider implementing search
across a very large document set (all patents in the world, for example); in such a
case, the data is too large to fit in the memory of a single machine, so instead the data
is sharded across multiple replicas. For example, patents 0-100,000 might be on the
first machine, 100,001-200,000 on the next machine, and so forth. (Note that this is
not actually a good sharding scheme since it will continually force us to add new
shards as new patents are registered. In practice, we’d likely use the patent number
modulo the total number of shards.) When a user submits a request to find a particu‐
lar word (e.g., “rockets”) in all of the patents in the index, that request is sent to each
76 
| 
Chapter 7: Scatter/Gather
