About the Author
Brendan Burns is a distinguished engineer at Microsoft and a cofounder of the
Kubernetes open source project. At Microsoft he works on Azure, focusing on Con‐
tainers and DevOps. Prior to Microsoft, he worked at Google in the Google Cloud
Platform, where he helped build APIs like Deployment Manager and Cloud DNS.
Before working on cloud computing, he worked on Google’s web-search infrastruc‐
ture, with a focus on low-latency indexing. He has a PhD in computer science from
the University of Massachusetts Amherst with a specialty in robotics. He lives in Seat‐
tle with his wife, Robin Sanders, their two children, and a cat, Mrs. Paws, who rules
over their household with an iron paw.
Colophon
The animal on the cover of Designing Distributed Systems is a Java sparrow. This bird
is loathed in the wild but loved in captivity. The Java’s scientific name is Padda oryzi‐
vora. Padda stands for paddy, the method of cultivating rice, and Oryza is the genus
for domestic rice. Therefore, Padda oryzivora means “rice paddy eater.” Farmers
destroy thousands of wild Javas each year to prevent the flocks from devouring their
crops. They also trap the birds for food or sell them in the international bird trade.
Despite this battle, the species continues to thrive in Java and Bali in Indonesia, as
well as Australia, Mexico, and North America.
Its plumage is pearly-grey, turning pinkish on the front and white towards the tail. It
has a black head with white cheeks. Its large bill, legs, and eye circles are bright pink.
The song of the Java sparrow begins with single notes, like a bell, before developing
into a continuous trilling and clucking, mixed with high-pitched and deeper notes.
The main part of their diet is rice, but they also eat small seeds, grasses, insects, and
flowering plants. In the wild, these birds will build a nest out of dried grass normally
under the roofs of buildings or in bushes or treetops. The Java will lay a clutch of
three or four eggs between February to August, with most eggs laid in April or May.
Its striking plumage, enchanting sounds, and ease of care create a demand for these
birds in the cage-bird trade. Conservation efforts are underway to ensure that the
market demand is met by captive-bred birds rather than wild caught.
Many of the animals on O’Reilly covers are endangered; all of them are important to
the world. To learn more about how you can help, go to animals.oreilly.com.
The cover image is from Lydekker’s Royal Natural History. The cover fonts are URW
Typewriter and Guardian Sans. The text font is Adobe Minion Pro; the heading font
is Adobe Myriad Condensed; and the code font is Dalton Maag’s Ubuntu Mono.
