CHAPTER 13
Conclusion: A New Beginning?
Every company, regardless of its origins, is becoming a digital company. This trans‐
formation requires the delivery of APIs and services to be consumed by mobile appli‐
cations, devices in the internet of things (IoT), or even autonomous vehicles and
systems. The increasing criticality of these systems means that it is necessary for these
online systems to be built for redundancy, fault tolerance, and high availability. At the
same time, the requirements of business necessitate rapid agility to develop and roll
out new software, iterate on existing applications, or experiment with new user inter‐
faces and APIs. The confluence of these requirements has led to an order of magni‐
tude increase in the number of distributed systems that need to be built.
The task of building these systems is still far too difficult. The overall cost of develop‐
ing, updating, and maintaining such a system is far too high. Likewise, the set of peo‐
ple with the capabilities and skills to build such applications is far too small to address
the growing need.
Historically, when these situations presented themselves in software development and
technology, new abstraction layers and patterns of software development emerged to
make building software faster, easier, and more reliable. This first occurred with the
development of the first compilers and programming languages. Later, the develop‐
ment of object-oriented programming languages and managed code occurred. Like‐
wise, at each of these moments, these technical developments crystallized the
distillation of the knowledge and practices of experts into a series of algorithms and
patterns that could be applied by a much wider group of practitioners. Technological
advancement combined with the establishment of patterns democratized the process
of developing software and expanded the set of developers who could build applica‐
tions on the new platform. This in turn led to the development of more applications
and application diversity, which in turn expanded the market for these developer’s
skills.
143
