271
Implementing an API gateway
behavior of an application and troubleshoot problems. An API gateway, like other ser-
vices in the architecture, must implement the patterns that have been selected for the
architecture. 
8.3
Implementing an API gateway
Let’s now look at how to implement an API gateway. As mentioned earlier, the respon-
sibilities of an API gateway are as follows:
Request routing—Routes requests to services using criteria such as HTTP request
method and path. The API gateway must route using the HTTP request method
when the application has one or more CQRS query services. As discussed in
chapter 7, in such an architecture commands and queries are handled by sepa-
rate services.
API composition—Implements a GET REST endpoint using the API composition
pattern, described in chapter 7. The request handler combines the results of
invoking multiple services.
Edge functions—Most notable among these is authentication.
Protocol translation—Translates between client-friendly protocols and the client-
unfriendly protocols used by services.
Being a good citizen in the application’s architecture.
There are a couple of different ways to implement an API gateway:
Using an off-the-shelf API gateway product/service—This option requires little or no
development but is the least flexible. For example, an off-the-shelf API gateway
typically does not support API composition
Developing your own API gateway using either an API gateway framework or a web frame-
work as the starting point—This is the most flexible approach, though it requires
some development effort.
Let’s look at these options, starting with using an off-the-shelf API gateway product or
service.
8.3.1
Using an off-the-shelf API gateway product/service
Several off-the-self services and products implement API gateway features. Let’s first
look at a couple of services that are provided by AWS. After that, I’ll discuss some
products that you can download, configure, and run yourself.
AWS API GATEWAY
The AWS API gateway, one of the many services provided by Amazon Web Services, is
a service for deploying and managing APIs. An AWS API gateway API is a set of REST
resources, each of which supports one or more HTTP methods. You configure the API
gateway to route each (Method, Resource) to a backend service. A backend service is
either an AWS Lambda Function, described later in chapter 12, an application-
defined HTTP service, or an AWS service. If necessary, you can configure the API
 
