51
Defining an application’s microservice architecture
2.2.2
Defining services by applying the Decompose by business 
capability pattern
One strategy for creating a microservice architecture is to decompose by business
capability. A concept from business architecture modeling, a business capability is some-
thing that a business does in order to generate value. The set of capabilities for a given
business depends on the kind of business. For example, the capabilities of an insur-
ance company typically include Underwriting, Claims management, Billing, Compliance,
and so on. The capabilities of an online store include Order management, Inventory
management, Shipping, and so on.
BUSINESS CAPABILITIES DEFINE WHAT AN ORGANIZATION DOES
An organization’s business capabilities capture what an organization’s business is.
They’re generally stable, as opposed to how an organization conducts its business, which
changes over time, sometimes dramatically. That’s especially true today, with the rapidly
growing use of technology to automate many business processes. For example, it wasn’t
that long ago that you deposited checks at your bank by handing them to a teller. It then
became possible to deposit checks using an ATM. Today you can conveniently deposit
most checks using your smartphone. As you can see, the Deposit check business capabil-
ity has remained stable, but the manner in which it’s done has drastically changed. 
IDENTIFYING BUSINESS CAPABILITIES
An organization’s business capabilities are identified by analyzing the organization’s
purpose, structure, and business processes. Each business capability can be thought of
as a service, except it’s business-oriented rather than technical. Its specification con-
sists of various components, including inputs, outputs, and service-level agreements.
For example, the input to an Insurance underwriting capability is the consumer’s
application, and the outputs include approval and price.
 A business capability is often focused on a particular business object. For example,
the Claim business object is the focus of the Claim management capability. A capability
can often be decomposed into sub-capabilities. For example, the Claim management
capability has several sub-capabilities, including Claim information management, Claim
review, and Claim payment management.
 It is not difficult to imagine that the business capabilities for FTGO include the
following:
Supplier management
– Courier management—Managing courier information
– Restaurant information management—Managing restaurant menus and other
information, including location and open hours
Pattern: Decompose by business capability
Define services corresponding to business capabilities. See http://microservices.io/
patterns/decomposition/decompose-by-business-capability.html.
 
