158
CHAPTER 5
Designing business logic in a microservice architecture
5.2.4
Aggregate granularity
When developing a domain model, a key decision you must make is how large to
make each aggregate. On one hand, aggregates should ideally be small. Because
updates to each aggregate are serialized, more fine-grained aggregates will increase
the number of simultaneous requests that the application can handle, improving scal-
ability. It will also improve the user experience because it reduces the chance of two
users attempting conflicting updates of the same aggregate. On the other hand, because
an aggregate is the scope of transaction, you may need to define a larger aggregate in
order to make a particular update atomic.
 For example, earlier I mentioned how in the FTGO application’s domain model
Order and Consumer are separate aggregates. An alternative design is to make Order
part of the Consumer aggregate. Figure 5.8 shows this alternative design.
A benefit of this larger Consumer aggregate is that the application can atomically
update a Consumer and one or more of its Orders. A drawback of this approach is that
it reduces scalability. Transactions that update different orders for the same customer
would be serialized. Similarly, two users would conflict if they attempted to edit differ-
ent orders for the same customer.
 Another drawback of this approach in a microservice architecture is that it is an
obstacle to decomposition. The business logic for Orders and Consumers, for exam-
ple, must be collocated in the same service, which makes the service larger. Because of
these issues, making aggregates as fine-grained as possible is best. 
restaurantId
...
Order
quantity
OrderLineItem
DeliveryInfo
...
<<aggregate root>>
Consumer
Consumer aggregate
...
<<aggregate root>>
Restaurant
Restaurant aggregate
PaymentInfo
DeliveryInfo
PaymentInfo
Figure 5.8
An alternative design defines a Customer aggregate that contains the Customer and 
Order classes. This design enables an application to atomically update a Consumer and one or more 
of its Orders.
 
