406
CHAPTER 12
Deploying microservices
 A NodePort service is accessible via a cluster-wide port on all the nodes in the clus-
ter. Any traffic to that port on any cluster node is load balanced to the backend pods.
You must select an available port in the range of 30000–32767. For example, listing 12.6
shows a service that routes traffic to port 30000 of Consumer Service.
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
name: ftgo-api-gateway
spec:
type: NodePort
  
ports:
- nodePort: 30000
  
port: 80
targetPort: 8080
selector:
app: ftgo-api-gateway
---
API Gateway is within the cluster using the URL http://ftgo-api-gateway and out-
side the URL http://<node-ip-address>:3000/, where node-ip-address is the IP
address of one of the nodes. After configuring a NodePort service you can, for exam-
ple, configure an AWS Elastic Load Balancer (ELB) to load balance requests from the
internet across the nodes. A key benefit of this approach is that the ELB is entirely
under your control. You have complete flexibility when configuring it.
 A NodePort type service isn’t the only option, though. You can also use a Load-
Balancer service, which automatically configures a cloud-specific load balancer. The
load balancer will be an ELB if Kubernetes is running on AWS. One benefit of this
type of service is that you no longer have to configure your own load balancer. The
drawback, however, is that although Kubernetes does give a few options for configur-
ing the ELB, such the SSL certificate, you have a lot less control over its configuration. 
12.4.4 Zero-downtime deployments
Imagine you’ve updated Restaurant Service and want to deploy those changes into
production. Updating a running service is a simple three-step process when using
Kubernetes:
1
Build a new container image and push it to the registry using the same process
described earlier. The only difference is that the image will be tagged with a dif-
ferent version tag—for example, ftgo-restaurant-service:1.1.0.RELEASE.
2
Edit the YAML file for the service’s deployment so that it references the new image.
3
Update the deployment using the kubectl apply -f command.
Kubernetes will then perform a rolling upgrade of the pods. It will incrementally cre-
ate pods running version 1.1.0.RELEASE and terminate the pods running version
Listing 12.6
The YAML definition of a NodePort service that routes traffic to port 
8082 of Consumer Service
Specifies a type 
of NodePort
The cluster-
wide port
 
