445
Designing how the service and the monolith collaborate
The monolith’s business logic invokes this API without knowing how it’s implemented
by the integration glue.
 Now that we’ve seen interface design, let’s look at interaction styles and IPC
mechanisms. 
PICKING AN INTERACTION STYLE AND IPC MECHANISM
An important design decision you must make when designing the integration glue is
selecting the interaction styles and IPC mechanisms that enable the service and the
monolith to collaborate. As described in chapter 3, there are several interaction
styles and IPC mechanisms to choose from. Which one you should use depends on
what one party—the service or monolith—needs in order to query or update the
other party.
 If one party needs to query data owned by the other party, there are several
options. One option is, as figure 13.9 shows, for the adapter that implements the
repository interface to invoke an API of the data provider. This API will typically use a
request/response interaction style, such as REST or gRPC. For example, Delayed
Delivery Service might retrieve the customer contact info by invoking a REST API
implemented by the FTGO monolith.
In this example, the Delayed Delivery Service’s domain logic retrieves the customer
contact info by invoking the CustomerContactInfoRepository interface. The imple-
mentation of this interface invokes the monolith’s REST API.
 An important benefit of querying data by invoking a query API is its simplicity. The
main drawback is that it’s potentially inefficient. A consumer might need to make a
large number of requests. A provider might return a large amount of data. Another
drawback is that it reduces availability because it’s synchronous IPC. As a result, it
might not be practical to use a query API.
Delayed
Delivery Service
Customer
ContactInfo
Repository
GET/customers/{customerId}
FTGO
monolith
Monolith
database
REST
API
REST
client
Figure 13.9
The adapter that implements the CustomerContactInfoRepository interface invokes the 
monolith’s REST API to retrieve the customer information.
 
