52
CHAPTER 2
Decomposition strategies
Consumer management—Managing information about consumers
Order taking and fulfillment
– Order management—Enabling consumers to create and manage orders
– Restaurant order management—Managing the preparation of orders at a
restaurant
– Logistics
– Courier availability management—Managing the real-time availability of couri-
ers to delivery orders
– Delivery management—Delivering orders to consumers
Accounting
– Consumer accounting—Managing billing of consumers
– Restaurant accounting—Managing payments to restaurants
– Courier accounting—Managing payments to couriers
…
The top-level capabilities include Supplier management, Consumer management,
Order taking and fulfillment, and Accounting. There will likely be many other top-
level capabilities, including marketing-related capabilities. Most top-level capabilities
are decomposed into sub-capabilities. For example, Order taking and fulfillment is
decomposed into five sub-capabilities.
 On interesting aspect of this capability hierarchy is that there are three restaurant-
related capabilities: Restaurant information management, Restaurant order manage-
ment, and Restaurant accounting. That’s because they represent three very different
aspects of restaurant operations.
 Next we’ll look at how to use business capabilities to define services. 
FROM BUSINESS CAPABILITIES TO SERVICES
Once you’ve identified the business capabilities, you then define a service for each
capability or group of related capabilities. Figure 2.8 shows the mapping from capabil-
ities to services for the FTGO application. Some top-level capabilities, such as the
Accounting capability, are mapped to services. In other cases, sub-capabilities are
mapped to services.
 The decision of which level of the capability hierarchy to map to services, because
is somewhat subjective. My justification for this particular mapping is as follows:
I mapped the sub-capabilities of Supplier management to two services, because
Restaurants and Couriers are very different types of suppliers.
I mapped the Order taking and fulfillment capability to three services that are
each responsible for different phases of the process. I combined the Courier
availability management and Delivery management capabilities and mapped
them to a single service because they’re deeply intertwined.
I mapped the Accounting capability to its own service, because the different
types of accounting seem similar.
 
