280
CHAPTER 8
External API patterns
API composition pattern and write code that invokes the services and combines
the results.
 Another challenge, mentioned earlier, is that different clients need slightly differ-
ent data. For example, unlike the mobile application, the desktop SPA application dis-
plays your rating for the order. One way to tailor the data returned by the endpoint, as
described in chapter 3, is to give the client the ability to specify the data they need. An
endpoint can, for example, support query parameters such as the expand parameter,
which specifies the related resources to return, and the field parameter, which speci-
fies the fields of each resource to return. The other option is to define multiple ver-
sions of this endpoint as part of applying the Backends for frontends pattern. This is a
lot of work for just one of the many API endpoints that the FTGO’s API Gateway
needs to implement.
 Implementing an API gateway with a REST API that supports a diverse set of cli-
ents well is time consuming. Consequently, you may want to consider using a graph-
based API framework, such as GraphQL, that’s designed to support efficient data
fetching. The key idea with graph-based API frameworks is that, as figure 8.9 shows,
the server’s API consists of a graph-based schema. The graph-based schema defines a
set of nodes (types), which have properties (fields) and relationships with other nodes.
The client retrieves data by executing a query that specifies the required data in terms
of the graph’s nodes and their properties and relationships. As a result, a client can
retrieve the data it needs in a single round-trip to the API gateway.
Graph-based API technology has a couple of important benefits. It gives clients con-
trol over what data is returned. Consequently, developing a single API that’s flexible
Consumer
Consumer
Restaurant
Delivery
Consumer Service
API gateway
Graph-based API framework
Graph schema
Order
Order Service
Restaurant
Restaurant Service
Delivery
Delivery Service
Order
Schema
=>
Service
mapping
Client
Query
Query
Query
Query
Query
Figure 8.9
The API gateway’s API consists of a graph-based schema that’s mapped to the services. A client 
issues a query that retrieves multiple graph nodes. The graph-based API framework executes the query by 
retrieving data from one or more services.
 
