337
Developing component tests
10.2.2 Writing acceptance tests using Gherkin
Writing acceptance tests in Java is challenging. There’s a risk that the scenarios and
the Java tests diverge. There’s also a disconnect between the high-level scenarios and
the Java tests, which consist of low-level implementation details. Also, there’s a risk
that a scenario lacks precision or is ambiguous and can’t be translated into Java code.
A much better approach is to eliminate the manual translation step and write execut-
able scenarios.
 Gherkin is a DSL for writing executable specifications. When using Gherkin, you
define your acceptance tests using English-like scenarios, such as the one shown ear-
lier. You then execute the specifications using Cucumber, a test automation frame-
work for Gherkin. Gherkin and Cucumber eliminate the need to manually translate
scenarios into runnable code.
 The Gherkin specification for a service such as Order Service consists of a set of fea-
tures. Each feature is described by a set of scenarios such as the one you saw earlier. A sce-
nario has the given-when-then structure. The givens are the preconditions, the when is
the action or event that occurs, and the then/and are the expected outcome.
 For example, the desired behavior of Order Service is defined by several features,
including Place Order, Cancel Order, and Revise Order. Listing 10.11 is an excerpt of
the Place Order feature. This feature consists of several elements:
Name—For this feature, the name is Place Order.
Specification brief—This describes why the feature exists. For this feature, the
specification brief is the user story.
Scenarios—Order authorized and Order rejected due to expired credit card.
Feature: Place Order
As a consumer of the Order Service
I should be able to place an order
Scenario: Order authorized
Given a valid consumer
Given using a valid credit card
Given the restaurant is accepting orders
When I place an order for Chicken Vindaloo at Ajanta
Then the order should be APPROVED
And an OrderAuthorized event should be published
Scenario: Order rejected due to expired credit card
Given a valid consumer
Given using an expired credit card
Given the restaurant is accepting orders
When I place an order for Chicken Vindaloo at Ajanta
Then the order should be REJECTED
And an OrderRejected event should be published
...
Listing 10.11
The Gherkin definition of the Place Order feature and some of its scenarios
 
