349
Developing secure services
 The first quality attribute is application security. It’s essential to develop secure appli-
cations, unless you want your company to be in the headlines for a data breach. Fortu-
nately, most aspects of security in a microservice architecture are not any different
than in a monolithic application. The FTGO team knew that much of what they had
learned over the years developing the monolith also applied to microservices. But the
microservice architecture forces you to implement some aspects of application-level
security differently. For example, you need to implement a mechanism to pass the
identity of the user from one service to another.
 The second quality attribute you must address is service configurability. A service typ-
ically uses one or more external services, such as message brokers and databases. The
network location and credentials of each external service often depend on the envi-
ronment that the service is running in. You can’t hard-wire the configuration proper-
ties into the service. Instead, you must use an externalized configuration mechanism
that provides a service with configuration properties at runtime.
 The third quality attribute is observability. The FTGO team had implemented
monitoring and logging for the existing application. But a microservice architecture
is a distributed system, and that presents some additional challenges. Every request
is handled by the API gateway and at least one service. Imagine, for example, that
you’re trying to determine which of six services is causing a latency issue. Or imag-
ine trying to understand how a request is handled when the log entries are scattered
across five different services. In order to make it easier to understand the behavior
of your application and troubleshoot problems, you must implement several observ-
ability patterns.
 I begin this chapter by describing how to implement security in a microservice
architecture. Next, I discuss how to design services that are configurable. I cover a
couple of different service configuration mechanisms. After that I talk about how to
make your services easier to understand and troubleshoot by using the observability
patterns. I end the chapter by showing how to simplify the implementation of these
and other concerns by developing your services on top of a microservice chassis
framework.
 Let’s first look at security.
11.1
Developing secure services
Cybersecurity has become a critical issue for every organization. Almost every day
there are headlines about how hackers have stolen a company’s data. In order to
develop secure software and stay out of the headlines, an organization needs to
tackle a diverse range of security issues, including physical security of the hardware,
encryption of data in transit and at rest, authentication and authorization, and pol-
icies for patching software vulnerabilities. Most of these issues are the same regard-
less of whether you’re using a monolithic or microservice architecture. This section
focuses on how the microservice architecture impacts security at the application
level.
 
