397
Deploying services using the Service as a container pattern
and optional port of the registry. The image name is also suffixed with the version,
which will be important when you make a new release of the service. For example, if
the hostname of the registry is registry.acme.com, you would use this command to
tag the image:
docker tag ftgo-restaurant-service registry.acme.com/ftgo-restaurant-
service:1.0.0.RELEASE
Next you use the docker push command to upload that tagged image to the registry:
docker push registry.acme.com/ftgo-restaurant-service:1.0.0.RELEASE
This command often takes much less time than you might expect. That’s because a
Docker image has what’s known as a layered file system, which enables Docker to only
transfer part of the image over the network. An image’s operating system, Java run-
time, and the application are in separate layers. Docker only needs to transfer those
layers that don’t exist in the destination. As a result, transferring an image over a net-
work is quite fast when Docker only has to move the application’s layers, which are a
small fraction of the image.
 Now that we’ve pushed the image to a registry, let’s look at how to create a
container. 
RUNNING A DOCKER CONTAINER
Once you’ve packaged your service as a container image, you can then create one or
more containers. The container infrastructure will pull the image from the registry
onto a production server. It will then create one or more containers from that image.
Each container is an instance of your service.
 As you might expect, Docker provides a docker run command that creates and
starts a container. Listing 12.3 shows how to use this command to run Restaurant
Service. The docker run command has several arguments, including the container
image and a specification of environment variables to set in the runtime container.
These are used to pass an externalized configuration, such as the database’s network
location and more.
docker run \
-d
\
  
--name ftgo-restaurant-service
\
   
-p 8082:8080
\
   
-e SPRING_DATASOURCE_URL=... -e SPRING_DATASOURCE_USERNAME=...
\  
-e SPRING_DATASOURCE_PASSWORD=... \
registry.acme.com/ftgo-restaurant-service:1.0.0.RELEASE
  
Listing 12.3
Using docker run to run a containerized service
Runs it as a 
background daemon
The name of 
the container
Binds port 8080 of the 
container to port 8082 
of the host machine
Environment 
variables
Image to run
 
