362
CHAPTER 11
Developing production-ready services
11.2.1 Using push-based externalized configuration
The push model relies on the collaboration of the deployment environment and the
service. The deployment environment supplies the configuration properties when it
creates a service instance. It might, as figure 11.7 shows, pass the configuration prop-
erties as environment variables. Alternatively, the deployment environment may sup-
ply the configuration properties using a configuration file. The service instance then
reads the configuration properties when it starts up.
The deployment environment and the service must agree on how the configuration
properties are supplied. The precise mechanism depends on the specific deployment
environment. For example, chapter 12 describes how you can specify the environment
variables of a Docker container.
 Let’s imagine that you’ve decided to supply externalized configuration property
values using environment variables. Your application could call System.getenv() to
obtain their values. But if you’re a Java developer, it’s likely that you’re using a frame-
work that provides a more convenient mechanism. The FTGO services are built using
Spring Boot, which has an extremely flexible externalized configuration mechanism
that retrieves configuration properties from a variety of sources with well-defined pre-
cedence rules (https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/boot-
features-external-config.html). Let’s look at how it works.
 Spring Boot reads properties from a variety of sources. I find the following sources
useful in a microservice architecture:
 
Order
History Service
instance
Process
Environment variables
Deployment
infrastructure
Conﬁgures
Creates
Reads
BOOTSTRAP_SERVERS=kafka1:9092
AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=
AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=...
AWS_REGION=...
....
Figure 11.7
When the deployment infrastructure creates an instance of Order History 
Service, it sets the environment variables containing the externalized configuration. Order 
History Service reads those environment variables.
 
