105
Using asynchronous messaging to improve availability
This service then asynchronously exchanges messages with other services and eventu-
ally sends a reply message to the client. Figure 3.16 shows the design.
The client and the services communicate asynchronously by sending messages via
messaging channels. No participant in this interaction is ever blocked waiting for a
response.
 Such an architecture would be extremely resilient, because the message broker
buffers messages until they can be consumed. The problem, however, is that services
often have an external API that uses a synchronous protocol such as REST, so it must
respond to requests immediately.
 If a service has a synchronous API, one way to improve availability is to replicate
data. Let’s see how that works. 
REPLICATE DATA
One way to minimize synchronous requests during request processing is to replicate
data. A service maintains a replica of the data that it needs when processing requests.
It keeps the replica up-to-date by subscribing to events published by the services that
own the data. For example, Order Service could maintain a replica of data owned by
Consumer Service and Restaurant Service. This would enable Order Service to
handle a request to create an order without having to interact with those services.
Figure 3.17 shows the design.
 Consumer Service and Restaurant Service publish events whenever their data
changes. Order Service subscribes to those events and updates its replica.
 In some situations, replicating data is a useful approach. For example, chapter 5
describes how Order Service replicates data from Restaurant Service so that it can
validate and price menu items. One drawback of replication is that it can sometimes
require the replication of large amounts of data, which is inefficient. For example, it
may not be practical for Order Service to maintain a replica of the data owned by
Consumer Service, due to the large number of consumers. Another drawback of
Client
Consumer
Service
Restaurant
Service
Order request
channel
Consumer request
channel
Order Service
reply channel
Restaurant request
channel
Create order
request
Create order
response
Order
Service
Client reply
channel
Figure 3.16
The FTGO application has higher availability if its services communicate using asynchronous 
messaging instead of synchronous calls.
 
