23
The Microservice architecture pattern language
A collection of patterns related through these relationships sometimes form what is
known as a pattern language. The patterns in a pattern language work together to
solve problems in a particular domain. In particular, I’ve created the Microservice
architecture pattern language. It’s a collection of interrelated software architecture
and design patterns for microservices. Let’s take a look at this pattern language. 
1.6.3
Overview of the Microservice architecture pattern language
The Microservice architecture pattern language is a collection of patterns that help
you architect an application using the microservice architecture. Figure 1.10 shows
the high-level structure of the pattern language. The pattern language first helps
you decide whether to use the microservice architecture. It describes the monolithic
architecture and the microservice architecture, along with their benefits and draw-
backs. Then, if the microservice architecture is a good fit for your application, the
pattern language helps you use it effectively by solving various architecture and
design issues.
 The pattern language consists of several groups of patterns. On the left in figure 1.10
is the application architecture patterns group, the Monolithic architecture pattern
and the Microservice architecture pattern. Those are the patterns we’ve been discussing
General
Alternative A
Predecessor
Speciﬁc
Alternative B
Successor
Decomposition
Application infrastructure patterns
Communication patterns
Infrastructure patterns
Microservice patterns
Application
architecture
Application patterns
Testing
Observability
Maintaining
data consistency
Database
architecture
Key
Querying
Security
Cross-cutting
concerns
Reliability
External
API
Communication style
Discovery
Transactional messaging
Problem area
Deployment
Monolithic
architecture
Microservice
architecture
Figure 1.10
A high-level view of the Microservice architecture pattern language showing the different problem 
areas that the patterns solve. On the left are the application architecture patterns: Monolithic architecture and 
Microservice architecture. All the other groups of patterns solve problems that result from choosing the 
Microservice architecture pattern.
 
