455
Implementing a new feature as a service: handling misdelivered orders
security framework, such as Spring Security or Passport for NodeJS. If the applica-
tion is configured to use the default in-memory session, the HTTP response sets a ses-
sion cookie, such as JSESSIONID. In order to support the migration to microservices,
LoginHandler must also set the USERINFO cookie containing the JWT that describes
the user. 
THE API GATEWAY MAPS THE USERINFO COOKIE TO THE AUTHORIZATION HEADER
The API gateway, as described in chapter 8, is responsible for request routing and API
composition. It handles each request by making one or more requests to the monolith
and the services. When the API gateway invokes a service, it validates the USERINFO
cookie and passes it to the service in the HTTP request’s Authorization header. By
mapping the cookie to the Authorization header, the API gateway ensures that it
passes the user identity to the service in a standard way that’s independent of the type
of client.
 Eventually, we’ll most likely extract login and user management into services. But
as you can see, by only making one small change to the monolith’s login handler, it’s
now possible for services to access user information. This enables you focus on devel-
oping services that provide the greatest value to the business and delay extracting less
valuable services, such as user management.
 Now that we’ve looked at how to handle security when refactoring to microser-
vices, let’s see an example of implementing a new feature as a service. 
13.4
Implementing a new feature as a service: handling 
misdelivered orders
Let’s say you’ve been tasked with improving how FTGO handles misdelivered orders.
A growing number of customers have been complaining about how customer ser-
vice handles orders not being delivered. The majority of orders are delivered on
time, but from time to time orders are either delivered late or not at all. For exam-
ple, the courier gets delayed by unexpectedly bad traffic, so the order is picked up
and delivered late. Or perhaps by the time the courier arrives at the restaurant, it’s
closed, and the delivery can’t be made. To make matters worse, the first time cus-
tomer service hears about the misdelivery is when they receive an angry email from
an unhappy customer.
A true story: My missing ice cream
One Saturday night I was feeling lazy and placed an order using a well-known food
delivery app to have ice cream delivered from Smitten. It never showed up. The only
communication from the company was an email the next morning saying my order had
been canceled. I also got a voicemail from a very confused customer service agent
who clearly didn’t know what she was calling about. Perhaps the call was prompted
by one of my tweets describing what happened. Clearly, the delivery company had not
established any mechanisms for properly handling inevitable mistakes.
 
