ABOUT THIS BOOK
xxiv
discusses the benefits of using a service mesh, a layer of networking software
that mediates communication in a microservice architecture.
■
Chapter 13 explains how to incrementally refactor a monolithic architecture to
a microservice architecture by applying the Strangler application pattern: imple-
menting new features as services and extracting modules out of the monolith
and converting them to services. 
As you progress through these chapters, you’ll learn about different aspects of the
microservice architecture.
About the code
This book contains many examples of source code both in numbered listings and
inline with normal text. In both cases, source code is formatted in a fixed-width font
like this to separate it from ordinary text. Sometimes code is also in bold to high-
light code that has changed from previous steps in the chapter, such as when a new
feature adds to an existing line of code. In many cases, the original source code has
been reformatted; the publisher has added line breaks and reworked indentation to
accommodate the available page space in the book. In rare cases, even this was not
enough, and listings include line-continuation markers (➥). Additionally, comments
in the source code have often been removed from the listings when the code is
described in the text. Code annotations accompany many of the listings, highlighting
important concepts.
 Every chapter, except chapters 1, 2, and 13, contains code from the companion
example application. You can find the code for this application in a GitHub reposi-
tory: https://github.com/microservices-patterns/ftgo-application.
Book forum
The purchase of Microservices Patterns includes free access to a private web forum
run by Manning Publications where you can make comments about the book, ask
technical questions, share your solutions to exercises, and receive help from the
author and from other users. To access the forum and subscribe to it, point your web
browser to https://forums.manning.com/forums/microservices-patterns. You can
also learn more about Manning’s forums and the rules of conduct at https://forums
.manning.com/forums/about.
 Manning’s commitment to our readers is to provide a venue where a meaningful
dialogue between individual readers and between readers and the author can take
place. It’s not a commitment to any specific amount of participation on the part of the
author, whose contribution to the forum remains voluntary (and unpaid). We suggest
you try asking the author some challenging questions lest his interest stray! The forum
and the archives of previous discussions will be accessible from the publisher’s website
as long as the book is in print.
 
