160
CHAPTER 5
Designing business logic in a microservice architecture
the service updates an Order aggregate. If an update request spans multiple services,
the OrderService will also create a saga, as described in chapter 4.
 We’ll take a look at the code—but first, let’s examine a concept that’s closely
related to aggregates: domain events. 
5.3
Publishing domain events
Merriam-Webster (https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/event) lists several
definitions of the word event, including these:
1
Something that happens
2
A noteworthy happening
3
A social occasion or activity
4
An adverse or damaging medical occurrence, a heart attack or other cardiac event
In the context of DDD, a domain event is something that has happened to an aggre-
gate. It’s represented by a class in the domain model. An event usually represents a
state change. Consider, for example, an Order aggregate in the FTGO application. Its
state-changing events include Order Created, Order Cancelled, Order Shipped, and
so forth. An Order aggregate might, if there are interested consumers, publish one of
the events each time it undergoes a state transition.
5.3.1
Why publish change events?
Domain events are useful because other parties—users, other applications, or other
components within the same application—are often interested in knowing about an
aggregate’s state changes. Here are some example scenarios:
Maintaining data consistency across services using choreography-based sagas,
described in chapter 4.
Notifying a service that maintains a replica that the source data has changed.
This approach is known as Command Query Responsibility Segregation (CQRS),
and it’s described in chapter 7.
Notifying a different application via a registered webhook or via a message bro-
ker in order to trigger the next step in a business process.
Notifying a different component of the same application in order, for example,
to send a WebSocket message to a user’s browser or update a text database such
as ElasticSearch.
Sending notifications—text messages or emails—to users informing them that
their order has shipped, their Rx prescription is ready for pick up, or their
flight is delayed.
Pattern: Domain event
An aggregate publishes a domain event when it’s created or undergoes some other
significant change.
 
