29
Beyond microservices: Process and organization
architecture in order to successfully develop software, but it’s not the only concern.
You must also consider process and organization. 
1.7
Beyond microservices: Process and organization
For a large, complex application, the microservice architecture is usually the best
choice. But in addition to having the right architecture, successful software develop-
ment requires you to also have organization, and development and delivery processes.
Figure 1.16 shows the relationships between process, organization, and architecture.
I’ve already described the microservice architecture. Let’s look at organization and
process.
1.7.1
Software development and delivery organization
Success inevitably means that the engineering team will grow. On the one hand, that’s
a good thing because more developers can get more done. The trouble with large
teams is, as Fred Brooks wrote in The Mythical Man-Month, the communication over-
head of a team of size N is O(N 2). If the team gets too large, it will become inefficient,
due to the communication overhead. Imagine, for example, trying to do a daily standup
with 20 people.
 The solution is to refactor a large single team into a team of teams. Each team is
small, consisting of no more than 8–12 people. It has a clearly defined business-oriented
mission: developing and possibly operating one or more services that implement a
feature or a business capability. The team is cross-functional and can develop, test,
and deploy its services without having to frequently communicate or coordinate with
other teams.
Enables
Enables
Architecture:
Microservice
architecture
Organization:
Small, autonomous,
cross-functional teams
Process:
DevOps/continuous delivery/deployment
Enables
Rapid, frequent,
and reliable delivery
of software
Figure 1.16
The rapid, frequent, and reliable delivery of large, 
complex applications requires a combination of DevOps, which 
includes continuous delivery/deployment, small, autonomous 
teams, and the microservice architecture.
 
