Chris Richardson
S
uccessfully developing microservices-based applications 
requires mastering a new set of architectural insights and 
practices. In this unique book, microservice architecture 
pioneer and Java Champion Chris Richardson collects, cata-
logues, and explains 44 patterns that solve problems such as 
service decomposition, transaction management, querying, 
and inter-service communication.
Microservices Patterns teaches you how to develop and deploy 
production-quality microservices-based applications. This 
invaluable set of design patterns builds on decades of dis-
tributed system experience, adding new patterns for writing 
services and composing them into systems that scale and 
perform reliably under real-world conditions. More than just 
a patterns catalog, this practical guide offers experience-driven 
advice to help you design, implement, test, and deploy your 
microservices-based application. 
What’s Inside
● How (and why!) to use the microservice architecture
● Service decomposition strategies
● Transaction management and querying patterns
● Effective testing strategies
● Deployment patterns including containers and serverless
Written for enterprise developers familiar with standard enter-
prise application architecture. Examples are in Java.
Chris Richardson is a Java Champion, a JavaOne rock star, 
author of Manning’s POJOs in Action, and the creator of the 
original CloudFoundry.com.
To download their free eBook in PDF, ePub, and Kindle formats, owners 
of this book should visit manning.com/books/microservices-patterns
$49.99 / Can $65.99  [INCLUDING eBOOK]
Microservices Patterns
SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT
M A N N I N G
“
A comprehensive overview 
of the challenges teams face 
when moving to microservices, 
with industry-tested solutions 
to these problems.”
 
—Tim Moore, Lightbend
“
Pragmatic treatment of 
an important new 
 architectural landscape.”
 
—Simeon Leyzerzon
Excelsior Software
“
A solid compendium of 
information that will quicken 
your migration to this modern 
cloud-based architecture.”
—John Guthrie, Dell/EMC 
“
How to understand the 
microservices approach, and 
how to use it in real life.”
 
—Potito Coluccelli
Bizmatica Econocom
See first page
