367
Designing observable services
library implements a GET /hc endpoint (https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/
standard/microservices-architecture/implement-resilient-applications/monitor-app-
health). The deployment infrastructure periodically invokes this endpoint to determine
the health of the service instance and takes the appropriate action if it’s unhealthy.
A Health Check Request Handler typically tests the service instance’s connections to
external services. It might, for example, execute a test query against a database. If all
the tests succeed, Health Check Request Handler returns a healthy response, such as
an HTTP 200 status code. If any of them fails, it returns an unhealthy response, such
as an HTTP 500 status code.
 Health Check Request Handler might simply return an empty HTTP response with
the appropriate status code. Or it might return a detailed description of the health of
each of the adapters. The detailed information is useful for troubleshooting. But
because it may contain sensitive information, some frameworks, such as Spring Boot
Actuator, let you configure the level of detail in the health endpoint response.
 There are two issues you need to consider when using health checks. The first is
the implementation of the endpoint, which must report back on the health of the ser-
vice instance. The second issue is how to configure the deployment infrastructure to
invoke the health check endpoint. Let’s first look at how to implement the endpoint.
IMPLEMENTING THE HEALTH CHECK ENDPOINT
The code that implements the health check endpoint must somehow determine the
health of the service instance. One simple approach is to verify that the service
instance can access its external infrastructure services. How to do this depends on the
Service
Checks
Checks
Health check
invoker
Invokes
Health check
endpoint
Health check
request
handler
Messaging
adapter
Message
broker
Database
adapter
MySQL
Tests the service’s connections
to infrastructure services
For example: monitoring
system, Service registry, and others
Figure 11.10
A service implements a health check endpoint, which is periodically invoked by the 
deployment infrastructure to determine the health of the service instance.
 
