46
CHAPTER 2
Decomposition strategies
that provide a vocabulary with which to describe the system operations. The second
step identifies the system operations and describes each one’s behavior in terms of the
domain model.
The domain model is derived primarily from the nouns of the user stories, and the sys-
tem operations are derived mostly from the verbs. You could also define the domain
model using a technique called Event Storming, which I talk about in chapter 5.
The behavior of each system operation is described in terms of its effect on one or
more domain objects and the relationships between them. A system operation can
create, update, or delete domain objects, as well as create or destroy relationships
between them.
 Let’s look at how to define a high-level domain model. After that I’ll define the sys-
tem operations in terms of the domain model.
CREATING A HIGH-LEVEL DOMAIN MODEL
The first step in the process of defining the system operations is to sketch a high-
level domain model for the application. Note that this domain model is much sim-
pler than what will ultimately be implemented. The application won’t even have a
single domain model because, as you’ll soon learn, each service has its own domain
model. Despite being a drastic simplification, a high-level domain model is useful at
this stage because it defines the vocabulary for describing the behavior of the system
operations.
 A domain model is created using standard techniques such as analyzing the nouns
in the stories and scenarios and talking to the domain experts. Consider, for example,
Functional requirements
FTGO
As a consumer
I want to place an order
so that I can ...
createOrder()
acceptOrder()
As a restaurant
I want to accept an order
so that I can ...
Step 2
High-level domain model
Step 1
Order
Maps to
System operations are deﬁned
in terms of domain model.
Domain model
derived from
requirements
Restaurant
Delivery
Figure 2.6
System operations are derived from the application’s requirements using a two-step process. The first 
step is to create a high-level domain model. The second step is to define the system operations, which are defined 
in terms of the domain model.
 
