396
CHAPTER 12
Deploying microservices
FROM openjdk:8u171-jre-alpine
RUN apk --no-cache add curl
  
CMD java ${JAVA_OPTS} -jar ftgo-restaurant-service.jar
  
HEALTHCHECK --start-period=30s --
interval=5s CMD curl http://localhost:8080/actuator/health || exit 1      
COPY build/libs/ftgo-restaurant-service.jar .
  
The base image openjdk:8u171-jre-alpine is a minimal footprint Linux image con-
taining the JRE. The Dockerfile copies the service’s JAR into the image and config-
ures the image to execute the JAR on startup. It also configures Docker to periodically
invoke the health check endpoint, described in chapter 11. The HEALTHCHECK direc-
tive says to invoke the health check endpoint API, described in chapter 11, every 5 sec-
onds after an initial 30-second delay, which gives the service time to start.
 Once you’ve written the Dockerfile, you can then build the image. The following
listing shows the shell commands to build the image for Restaurant Service. The
script builds the service’s JAR file and executes the docker build command to create
the image.
cd ftgo-restaurant-service
../gradlew assemble
  
docker build -t ftgo-restaurant-service .
  
The docker build command has two arguments: the -t argument specifies the name
of the image, and the . specifies what Docker calls the context. The context, which in
this example is the current directory, consists of Dockerfile and the files used to
build the image. The docker build command uploads the context to the Docker dae-
mon, which builds the image. 
PUSHING A DOCKER IMAGE TO A REGISTRY
The final step of the build process is to push the newly built Docker image to what is
known as a registry. A Docker registry is the equivalent of a Java Maven repository for
Java libraries, or a NodeJS npm registry for NodeJS packages. Docker hub is an exam-
ple of a public Docker registry and is equivalent to Maven Central or NpmJS.org. But
for your applications you’ll probably want to use a private registry provided by ser-
vices, such as Docker Cloud registry or AWS EC2 Container Registry.
 You must use two Docker commands to push an image to a registry. First, you use
the docker tag command to give the image a name that’s prefixed with the hostname
Listing 12.1
The Dockerfile used to build Restaurant Service
Listing 12.2
The shell commands used to build the container image for 
Restaurant Service
The base image
Install curl for 
use by the 
health check.
Configure Docker 
to run java -jar .. 
when the container 
is started.
Configure Docker to
invoke the health
check endpoint.
Copies the JAR in Gradle’s build
directory into the image
Change to the 
service’s directory.
Build the 
service’s JAR.
Build the image.
 
