15
Benefits and drawbacks of the microservice architecture
Let’s look at each benefit.
ENABLES THE CONTINUOUS DELIVERY AND DEPLOYMENT OF LARGE, COMPLEX APPLICATIONS
The most important benefit of the microservice architecture is that it enables continu-
ous delivery and deployment of large, complex applications. As described later in sec-
tion 1.7, continuous delivery/deployment is part of DevOps, a set of practices for the
rapid, frequent, and reliable delivery of software. High-performing DevOps organiza-
tions typically deploy changes into production with very few production issues.
 There are three ways that the microservice architecture enables continuous deliv-
ery/deployment:
It has the testability required by continuous delivery/deployment—Automated testing is
a key practice of continuous delivery/deployment. Because each service in a
microservice architecture is relatively small, automated tests are much easier to
write and faster to execute. As a result, the application will have fewer bugs.
It has the deployability required by continuous delivery/deployment—Each service can
be deployed independently of other services. If the developers responsible for a
service need to deploy a change that’s local to that service, they don’t need to
coordinate with other developers. They can deploy their changes. As a result,
it’s much easier to deploy changes frequently into production.
It enables development teams to be autonomous and loosely coupled—You can structure
the engineering organization as a collection of small (for example, two-pizza)
teams. Each team is solely responsible for the development and deployment of
one or more related services. As figure 1.8 shows, each team can develop, deploy,
and scale their services independently of all the other teams. As a result, the
development velocity is much higher.
The ability to do continuous delivery and deployment has several business benefits:
It reduces the time to market, which enables the business to rapidly react to
feedback from customers.
It enables the business to provide the kind of reliable service today’s customers
have come to expect.
Employee satisfaction is higher because more time is spent delivering valuable
features instead of fighting fires.
As a result, the microservice architecture has become the table stakes of any business
that depends upon software technology. 
EACH SERVICE IS SMALL AND EASILY MAINTAINED
Another benefit of the microservice architecture is that each service is relatively small.
The code is easier for a developer to understand. The small code base doesn’t slow
down the IDE, making developers more productive. And each service typically starts a
lot faster than a large monolith does, which also makes developers more productive
and speeds up deployments. 
 
