7
What you’ll learn in this book
are stuck with the technology choices they made at the start of the project. Quite
often, they must maintain an application written using an increasingly obsolete tech-
nology stack.
 The Spring framework has continued to evolve while being backward compatible,
so in theory FTGO might have been able to upgrade. Unfortunately, the FTGO applica-
tion uses versions of frameworks that are incompatible with newer versions of Spring.
The development team has never found the time to upgrade those frameworks. As a
result, major parts of the application are written using increasingly out-of-date frame-
works. What’s more, the FTGO developers would like to experiment with non-JVM
languages such as GoLang and NodeJS. Sadly, that’s not possible with a monolithic
application. 
1.2
Why this book is relevant to you
It’s likely that you’re a developer, architect, CTO, or VP of engineering. You’re responsi-
ble for an application that has outgrown its monolithic architecture. Like Mary at
FTGO, you’re struggling with software delivery and want to know how to escape
monolith hell. Or perhaps you fear that your organization is on the path to mono-
lithic hell and you want to know how to change direction before it’s too late. If you
need to escape or avoid monolithic hell, this is the book for you.
 This book spends a lot of time explaining microservice architecture concepts. My
goal is for you to find this material accessible, regardless of the technology stack you
use. All you need is to be familiar with the basics of enterprise application architecture
and design. In particular, you need to know the following:
Three-tier architecture
Web application design
How to develop business logic using object-oriented design
How to use an RDBMS: SQL and ACID transactions
How to use interprocess communication using a message broker and REST APIs
Security, including authentication and authorization
The code examples in this book are written using Java and the Spring framework.
That means in order to get the most out of the examples, you need to be familiar with
the Spring framework too.
1.3
What you’ll learn in this book
By the time you finish reading this book you’ll understand the following:
The essential characteristics of the microservice architecture, its benefits and
drawbacks, and when to use it
Distributed data management patterns
Effective microservice testing strategies
Deployment options for microservices
Strategies for refactoring a monolithic application into a microservice architecture
 
