Introduction
•Separate what we need from external services from how we get it (Chap-
ter6)
•Work with current time and random data independently from how the
running application will retrieve this information (Chapter 7)
Along the way we find out the common refactoring techniques for separating
these concerns. We notice how these refactoring techniques result in possi-
bly already familiar design patterns, like entities, value objects, and applica-
tion services. We finish this part with an elaborate discussion of validation,
and where and how it should or can happen (Chapter 8).
Part II(“Organizing principles”) provides an overview of the organizational
principles that can be applied to an application’s design at the architectural
scale. Chapter 11is a catalog of the design patterns that we derived in Part I.
We cover them in more detail and add some relevant nuances and sugges-
tions for implementation. Chapter 12shows how separating core from in-
frastructure code using all of these design patterns allows you to group the
resulting classes into a standardized set of layers . Chapter 13then continues
to explain how you can use the architectural style called Ports and adapters
as a kind of overlay for this layered architecture. In Chapter 14we look at
a possible testing strategy for decoupled applications. With Chapter 15we
reach the book’s conclusion.
5. The accompanying demo project
Of course all the design techniques and principles discussed in this book are
illustrated with many code samples. However, these samples are always ab-
breviated, idealized, and they show only the most essential aspects. To get a
full understanding of how all the different parts of an application work to-
gether, we need a demo project. Again, not an idealized or simplified one,
but a real-world project that is running in production. People have often
asked for such a project and I’ve always answered: I’d love to work on that,
now I need to find some time. This time I decided to make it happen. The
demo project is the source code for the new Read with the Author platform.
This software runs in production. In fact, you may have used the software
xiii