13. Ports and adapters
destination for this book’s quest of designing applications that are decoupled
from surrounding infrastructure.
An alternative name for hexagonal architecture is Ports & Adapters . I think
this name is actually better, because ports and adapters are the main con-
cepts, and they are almost self-explanatory.
13.2. Ports
Let’s start with the concept of a Port, which can only be explained using the
concept of an Actor . In Chapter 9we already talked about actors and the
distinction between a primary and a secondary or supporting actor, but let’s
quickly repeat the definitions here. A primary actor is an actor that takes the
initiative for communication. An example of a primary actor is a user who
visits our web page, or an external system that talks to one of our API end-
points. When our application reaches out to an external system, for instance
the database or a mail server, the external system should be considered a
secondary or supporting actor.
With hexagonal architecture all the use cases are core code and they live in-
side the Hexagon . Whenever a primary actor needs to invoke one of the ap-
plication’s use cases the application should define a Port for that. Whenever
a use case needs to communicate with a supporting actor, like the database,
we also have to define a Port for that. A port is an “intention of communica-
tion”. For example: our application may have a port “for creating an order”
which can be used by primary actors to create an order. Our application will
also have a port “for saving an order” which indicates that the application
needs a supporting actor for saving orders.
A port that is used by a primary actor to communicate with our application
could be called an Incoming port . A port that our application itself uses to
communicate with a supporting actor could be called an Outgoing port . Fig-
ure13.1 shows the hexagon with some of the use cases of our e-book webshop
application. Each side of the hexagon represents a single port; the left side is
usually used for incoming ports, the right side for outgoing ports.
Cockburn equates a port with an interface . It’s a way in which actors can “in-
299