152 
Part Two  Quality Attributes	
9—Security
Resist Attacks
There are a number of well-known means of resisting an attack:
■
■Identify actors. Identifying “actors” is really about identifying the source of 
any external input to the system. Users are typically identified through user 
IDs. Other systems may be “identified” through access codes, IP addresses, 
protocols, ports, and so on.
■
■Authenticate actors. Authentication means ensuring that an actor (a user or 
a remote computer) is actually who or what it purports to be. Passwords, 
one-time passwords, digital certificates, and biometric identification 
provide a means for authentication.
■
■Authorize actors. Authorization means ensuring that an authenticated actor 
has the rights to access and modify either data or services. This mechanism 
is usually enabled by providing some access control mechanisms within 
a system. Access control can be by an actor or by an actor class. Classes 
of actors can be defined by actor groups, by actor roles, or by lists of 
individuals.
■
■Limit access. Limiting access involves controlling what and who may access 
which parts of a system. This may include limiting access to resources such 
as processors, memory, and network connections, which may be achieved 
by using process management, memory protection, blocking a host, closing 
a port, or rejecting a protocol. For example, a firewall is a single point of 
access to an organization’s intranet. A demilitarized zone (DMZ) is a subnet 
between the Internet and an intranet, protected by two firewalls: one facing 
the Internet and the other the intranet. A DMZ is used when an organization 
wants to let external users access services that should be publicly available 
outside the intranet. This way the number of open ports in the internal firewall 
can be minimized. This tactic also limits access for actors (by identifying, 
authenticating, and authorizing them).
■
■Limit exposure. Limiting exposure refers to ultimately and indirectly 
reducing the probability of a successful attack, or restricting the amount of 
potential damage. This can be achieved by concealing facts about a system 
to be protected (“security by obscurity”) or by dividing and distributing 
critical resources so that the exploitation of a single weakness cannot fully 
compromise any resource (“don’t put all your eggs in one basket”). For 
example, a design decision to hide how many entry points a system has is a 
way of limiting exposure. A decision to distribute servers amongst several 
geographically dispersed data centers is also a way of limiting exposure.
■
■Encrypt data. Data should be protected from unauthorized access. 
Confidentiality is usually achieved by applying some form of encryption 
to data and to communication. Encryption provides extra protection to 
persistently maintained data beyond that available from authorization. 
Communication links, on the other hand, may not have authorization 
controls. In such cases, encryption is the only protection for passing data 
over publicly accessible communication links. The link can be implemented 
by a virtual private network (VPN) or by a Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) for 
