5.2  Tactics for Availability
91
■
■Timeout is a tactic that raises an exception when a component detects 
that it or another component has failed to meet its timing constraints. For 
example, a component awaiting a response from another component can 
raise an exception if the wait time exceeds a certain value. 
■
■Self-test. Components (or, more likely, whole subsystems) can run proce-
dures to test themselves for correct operation. Self-test procedures can be 
initiated by the component itself, or invoked from time to time by a system 
monitor. These may involve employing some of the techniques found in 
condition monitoring, such as checksums.
Recover from Faults
Recover-from-faults tactics are refined into preparation-and-repair tactics and 
reintroduction tactics. The latter are concerned with reintroducing a failed (but 
rehabilitated) component back into normal operation.
Preparation-and-repair tactics are based on a variety of combinations of re-
trying a computation or introducing redundancy. They include the following:
■
■Active redundancy (hot spare). This refers to a configuration where all of 
the nodes (active or redundant spare) in a protection group2 receive and 
process identical inputs in parallel, allowing the redundant spare(s) to main-
tain synchronous state with the active node(s). Because the redundant spare 
possesses an identical state to the active processor, it can take over from a 
failed component in a matter of milliseconds. The simple case of one active 
node and one redundant spare node is commonly referred to as 1+1 (“one 
plus one”) redundancy. Active redundancy can also be used for facilities 
protection, where active and standby network links are used to ensure high-
ly available network connectivity. 
■
■Passive redundancy (warm spare). This refers to a configuration where 
only the active members of the protection group process input traffic; 
one of their duties is to provide the redundant spare(s) with periodic state 
updates. Because the state maintained by the redundant spares is only 
loosely coupled with that of the active node(s) in the protection group 
(with the looseness of the coupling being a function of the checkpointing 
mechanism employed between active and redundant nodes), the redundant 
nodes are referred to as warm spares. Depending on a system’s availability 
requirements, passive redundancy provides a solution that achieves a bal-
ance between the more highly available but more compute-intensive (and 
expensive) active redundancy tactic and the less available but significantly 
less complex cold spare tactic (which is also significantly cheaper). (For an 
2.  A protection group is a group of processing nodes where one or more nodes are “active,” with the 
remaining nodes in the protection group serving as redundant spares.
