14.5  Analysis at Different Stages of the Life Cycle
265
resolving tradeoffs, by helping to turn unknown architectural parameters into 
constants or ranges. For example, consider just a few of the questions that might 
occur when creating a web-conferencing system—a distributed client-server in-
frastructure with real-time constraints:
■
■Would moving to a distributed database from local flat files negatively im-
pact feedback time (latency) for users?
■
■How many participants could be hosted by a single conferencing server?
■
■What is the correct ratio between database servers and conferencing 
servers?
These sorts of questions are difficult to answer analytically. The answers to 
these questions rely on the behavior and interaction of third-party components 
such as commercial databases, and on performance characteristics of software for 
which no standard analytical models exist. The approach used for the web-con-
ferencing architecture was to build an extensive testing infrastructure that sup-
ported simulations, experiments, and prototypes, and use it to compare the per-
formance of each incremental modification to the code base. This allowed the 
architect to determine the effect of each form of improvement before committing 
to including it in the final system. The infrastructure includes the following:
■
■A client simulator that makes it appear as though tens of thousands of cli-
ents are simultaneously interacting with a conferencing server.
■
■Instrumentation to measure load on the conferencing server and database 
server with differing numbers of clients.
The lesson from this experience is that experimentation can often be a criti-
cal precursor to making significant architectural decisions. Experimentation must 
be built into the development process: building experimental infrastructure can 
be time-consuming, possibly requiring the development of custom tools. Carry-
ing out the experiments and analyzing their results can require significant time. 
These costs must be recognized in project schedules. 
14.5  Analysis at Different Stages of the Life Cycle
Depending on your project’s state of development, different forms of analysis are 
possible. Each form of analysis comes with its own costs. And there are different 
levels of confidence associated with each analysis technique. These are summa-
rized in Table 14.3.
