5.2  Tactics for Availability
89
malfunctioning components. For example, the system monitor can initiate 
self-tests, or be the component that detects faulty time stamps or missed 
heartbeats.1
■
■Heartbeat is a fault detection mechanism that employs a periodic message 
exchange between a system monitor and a process being monitored. A 
special case of heartbeat is when the process being monitored periodically 
resets the watchdog timer in its monitor to prevent it from expiring and thus 
signaling a fault. For systems where scalability is a concern, transport and 
processing overhead can be reduced by piggybacking heartbeat messages 
on to other control messages being exchanged between the process being 
monitored and the distributed system controller. The big difference between 
heartbeat and ping/echo is who holds the responsibility for initiating the 
health check—the monitor or the component itself.
■
■Time stamp. This tactic is used to detect incorrect sequences of events, pri-
marily in distributed message-passing systems. A time stamp of an event 
can be established by assigning the state of a local clock to the event imme-
diately after the event occurs. Simple sequence numbers can also be used 
for this purpose, if time information is not important.
■
■Sanity checking checks the validity or reasonableness of specific operations 
or outputs of a component. This tactic is typically based on a knowledge of 
the internal design, the state of the system, or the nature of the information 
under scrutiny. It is most often employed at interfaces, to examine a specific 
information flow. 
■
■Condition monitoring involves checking conditions in a process or device, 
or validating assumptions made during the design. By monitoring condi-
tions, this tactic prevents a system from producing faulty behavior. The 
computation of checksums is a common example of this tactic. However, 
the monitor must itself be simple (and, ideally, provable) to ensure that it 
does not introduce new software errors. 
■
■Voting. The most common realization of this tactic is referred to as triple 
modular redundancy (TMR), which employs three components that do the 
same thing, each of which receives identical inputs, and forwards their out-
put to voting logic, used to detect any inconsistency among the three output 
states. Faced with an inconsistency, the voter reports a fault. It must also 
decide what output to use. It can let the majority rule, or choose some com-
puted average of the disparate outputs. This tactic depends critically on the 
voting logic, which is usually realized as a simple, rigorously reviewed and 
tested singleton so that the probability of error is low. 
1.  When the detection mechanism is implemented using a counter or timer that is periodically reset, 
this specialization of system monitor is referred to as a “watchdog.” During nominal operation, the 
process being monitored will periodically reset the watchdog counter/timer as part of its signal that 
it’s working correctly; this is sometimes referred to as “petting the watchdog.”
