1.7  Discussion Questions
23
Early papers on architectural views as used in industrial development proj-
ects are [Soni 95] and [Kruchten 95]. The former grew into a book [Hofmeister 
00] that presents a comprehensive picture of using views in development and 
analysis. The latter grew into the Rational Unified Process, about which there is 
no shortage of references, both paper and online. A good one is [Kruchten 03].
Cristina Gacek and her colleagues discuss the process issues surrounding 
software architecture in [Gacek 95].
Garlan and Shaw’s seminal work on software architecture [Garlan 93] 
provides many excellent examples of architectural styles (a concept similar to 
patterns).
In [Clements 10a] you can find an extended discussion on the difference be-
tween an architectural pattern and an architectural style. (It argues that a pattern 
is a context-problem-solution triple; a style is simply a condensation that focuses 
most heavily on the solution part.)
See [Taylor 09] for a definition of software architecture based on decisions 
rather than on structure.
1.7  Discussion Questions
1.	
Software architecture is often compared to the architecture of buildings as a 
conceptual analogy. What are the strong points of that analogy? What is the 
correspondence in buildings to software architecture structures and views? 
To patterns? What are the weaknesses of the analogy? When does it break 
down?
2.	
Do the architectures you’ve been exposed to document different structures 
and relations like those described in this chapter? If so, which ones? If not, 
why not? 
3.	
Is there a different definition of software architecture that you are familiar 
with? If so, compare and contrast it with the definition given in this chapter. 
Many definitions include considerations like “rationale” (stating the reasons 
why the architecture is what it is) or how the architecture will evolve over 
time. Do you agree or disagree that these considerations should be part of 
the definition of software architecture?
4.	
Discuss how an architecture serves as a basis for analysis. What about 
decision-making? What kinds of decision-making does an architecture 
empower? 
5.	
What is architecture’s role in project risk reduction?
