262 
Part Two  Quality Attributes	
14—Quality Attribute Modeling and Analysis
compare these with inventory and configuration databases, and log all 
discrepancies. 
This kind of rule is intended to detect malware masquerading as legitimate 
components of a system. The architect will look at this item and conclude the 
following:
■
■The embedded portions of the system should be able to report their version 
number, installation date, configuration settings, and patch levels. One tech-
nique for doing this is to use “reflection” for each component in the system. 
Reflection now becomes one of the important patterns used in this system.
■
■Each software update or patch should maintain this information. One tech-
nique for doing this is to have automated update and patch mechanisms. 
The architecture could also realize this functionality through reflection.
■
■A system must be designated to query the embedded components and per-
sist the information. This means
■
■There must be overall inventory and configuration databases.
■
■Logs of discrepancies between current values and overall inventory must 
be generated and sent to appropriate recipients.
■
■There must be network connections to the embedded components. This 
affects the network topology.
The creation of quality attribute checklists is usually a time-consuming ac-
tivity, undertaken by multiple individuals and typically refined and evolved over 
time. Domain specialists, quality attribute specialists, and architects should all 
contribute to the development and validation of these checklists.
The architect should treat the items on an applicable checklist as require-
ments, in that they need to be understood and prioritized. Under particular cir-
cumstances, an item in a checklist may not be met, but the architect should have a 
compelling case as to why it is not.
14.3  Thought Experiments and  
Back-of-the-Envelope Analysis
A thought experiment is a fancy name for the kinds of discussions that develop-
ers and architects have on a daily basis in their offices, in their meetings, over 
lunch, over whiteboards, in hallways, and around the coffee machine. One of the 
participants might draw two circles and an arrow on the whiteboard and make an 
assertion about the quality attribute behavior of these two circles and the arrow in 
a particular context; a discussion ensues. The discussion can last for a long time, 
especially if the two circles are augmented with a third and one more arrow, or if 
some of the assumptions underlying a circle or an arrow are still in flux. In this 
section, we describe this process somewhat more formally. 
