106 
Part Two  Quality Attributes	
6—Interoperability
Systems of Systems
If you have a group of systems that are interoperating to achieve a joint 
purpose, you have what is called a system of systems (SoS). An SoS is 
an arrangement of systems that results when independent and useful sys-
tems are integrated into a larger system that delivers unique capabilities. 
Table 6.1 shows a categorization of SoSs.
Table 6.1  Taxonomy of Systems of Systems*
Directed
SoS objectives, centralized management, funding, and 
authority for the overall SoS are in place. Systems are 
subordinated to the SoS.
Acknowledged
SoS objectives, centralized management, funding, and 
authority in place. However, systems retain their own 
management, funding, and authority in parallel with the 
SoS.
Collaborative
There are no overall objectives, centralized 
management, authority, responsibility, or funding at the 
SoS level. Systems voluntarily work together to address 
shared or common interests.
Virtual
Like collaborative, but systems don’t know about each 
other.
*  The taxonomy shown is an extension of work done by Mark Maier in 1998.
In directed and acknowledged SoSs, there is a deliberate attempt to 
create an SoS. The key difference is that in the former, there is SoS-level 
management that exercises control over the constituent systems, while in 
the latter, the constituent systems retain a high degree of autonomy in their 
own evolution. Collaborative and virtual systems of systems are more ad 
hoc, absent an overarching authority or source of funding and, in the case 
of a virtual SoS, even absent the knowledge about the scope and member-
ship of the SoS.
The collaborative case is quite common. Consider the Google Maps ex-
ample from the introduction. Google is the manager and funding authority 
for the map service. Each use of the maps in an application (an SoS) has 
its own management and funding authority, and there is no overall manage-
ment of all of the applications that use Google Maps. The various organiza-
tions involved in the applications collaborate (either explicitly or implicitly) to 
enable the applications to work correctly.
A virtual SoS involves large systems and is much more ad hoc. For 
example, there are over 3,000 electric companies in the U.S. electric grid, 
each state has a public utility commission that oversees the utility companies 
operating in its state, and the federal Department of Energy provides some 
level of policy guidance. Many of the systems within the electric grid must 
interoperate, but there is no management authority for the overall system.
