196 
Part Two  Quality Attributes	
12—Other Quality Attributes
standard list of quality attributes, but that QA was as important to that organiza-
tion as any other.
Second, lists often generate more controversy than understanding. You 
might argue persuasively that “functional correctness” should be part of “reliabil-
ity,” or that “portability” is just a kind of “modifiability,” or that “maintainability” 
is a kind of “modifiability” (not the other way around). The writers of ISO 25010 
apparently spent time and effort deciding to make security its own characteristic, 
instead of a subcharacteristic of functionality, which it was in a previous version. 
We believe that effort in making these arguments could be better spent elsewhere.
Third, these lists often purport to be taxonomies, which are lists with the 
special property that every member can be assigned to exactly one place. Quality 
attributes are notoriously squishy in this regard. We discussed denial of service as 
being part of security, availability, performance, and usability in Chapter 4.
Finally, these lists force architects to pay attention to every quality attribute 
on the list, even if only to finally decide that the particular quality attribute is ir-
relevant to their system. Knowing how to quickly decide that a quality attribute is 
irrelevant to a specific system is a skill gained over time.
These observations reinforce the lesson introduced in Chapter 4 that quality 
attribute names, by themselves, are largely useless and are at best invitations to 
begin a conversation; that spending time worrying about what qualities are sub-
qualities of what other qualities is also almost useless; and that scenarios provide 
the best way for us to specify precisely what we mean when we speak of a quality 
attribute. 
Use standard lists of quality attributes to the extent that they are helpful as 
checklists, but don’t feel the need to slavishly adhere to their terminology. 
12.5  Dealing with “X-ability”: Bringing a New 
Quality Attribute into the Fold
Suppose, as an architect, you must deal with a quality attribute for which there 
is no compact body of knowledge, no “portfolio” like Chapters 5–11 provided 
for those seven QAs? Suppose you find yourself having to deal with a quality 
attribute like “green computing” or “manageability” or even “Iowability”? What 
do you do?
Capture Scenarios for the New Quality Attribute
The first thing to do is interview the stakeholders whose concerns have led to the 
need for this quality attribute. You can work with them, either individually or as 
a group, to build a set of attribute characterizations that refine what is meant by 
