256 
Part Two  Quality Attributes	
14—Quality Attribute Modeling and Analysis
illustrates three well-known redundancy tactics from Chapter  5: active redun-
dancy, passive redundancy, and cold spare. Our goal is to analyze each redun-
dancy option for its availability, to help us choose one.
As you recall, each of these tactics introduces a backup copy of a compo-
nent that will take over in case the primary component suffers a failure. In our 
case, a broker replica is employed as the redundant spare. The difference among 
them is how up to date with current events each backup keeps itself:
■
■In the case of active redundancy, the active and redundant brokers both 
receive identical copies of the messages received from the client and server 
proxies. The internal broker state is synchronously maintained between the 
active and redundant spare in order to facilitate rapid failover upon detec-
tion of a fault in the active broker. 
■
■For the passive redundancy implementation, only the active broker receives 
and processes messages from the client and server proxies. When using this 
tactic, checkpoints of internal broker state are periodically transmitted from 
the active broker process to the redundant spare, using the checkpoint-based 
rollback tactic. 
■
■Finally, when using the cold spare tactic, only the active broker receives 
and processes messages from the client and server proxies, because the 
redundant spare is in a dormant or even powered-off state. Recovery strate-
gies using this tactic involve powering up, booting, and loading the broker 
implementation on the spare. In this scenario, the internal broker state is 
rebuilt organically, rather than via synchronous operation or checkpointing, 
as described for the other two redundancy tactics.
Suppose further that we will detect failure with the heartbeat tactic, where 
each broker (active and spare) periodically transmits a heartbeat message to a 
separate process responsible for fault detection, correlation, reporting, and recov-
ery. This fault manager process is responsible for coordinating the transition of 
the active broker role from the failed broker process to the redundant spare. 
You can now use the steady state model of availability to assign values for 
MTBF and MTTR for each of the three redundancy tactics we are considering. 
Doing so will be an exercise left to the reader (as you’ll see when you reach the 
discussion questions for this chapter). Because the three tactics differ primarily in 
how long it takes to bring the backup copy up to speed, MTTR will be where the 
difference among the tactics shows up.
More sophisticated models of availability exist, based on probability. In 
these models, we can express a probability of failure during a period of time. 
Given a particular MTBF and a time duration T, the probability of failure R is 
given by
R(T ) = e(    )
–T
MTBF
