12.5  Dealing with “X-ability”: Bringing a New Quality Attribute into the Fold
197
the QA. For example, security is often decomposed into concerns such as confi-
dentiality, integrity, availability, and others. After that refinement, you can work 
with the stakeholders to craft a set of specific scenarios that characterize what is 
meant by that QA. 
Once you have a set of specific scenarios, then you can work to generalize 
the collection. Look at the set of stimuli you’ve collected, the set of responses, 
the set of response measures, and so on. Use those to construct a general scenario 
by making each part of the general scenario a generalization of the specific in-
stances you collected. 
In our experience, the steps described so far tend to consume about half a day.
Assemble Design Approaches for the New Quality Attribute
After you have a set of guiding scenarios for the QA, you can assemble a set of 
design approaches for dealing with it. You can do this by 
1.	
Revisiting a body of patterns you’re familiar with and asking yourself how 
each one affects the QA of interest.
2.	
Searching for designs that have had to deal with this QA. You can search on 
the name you’ve given the QA itself, but you can also search for the terms 
you chose when you refined the QA into subsidiary attribute characteriza-
tions (such as “confidentiality” for the QA of security). 
3.	
Finding experts in this area and interviewing them or simply writing and 
asking them for advice. 
4.	
Using the general scenario to try to catalog a list of design approaches to 
produce the responses in the response category.
5.	
Using the general scenario to catalog a list of ways in which a problematic 
architecture would fail to produce the desired responses, and thinking of 
design approaches to head off those cases.
Model the New Quality Attribute
If you can build a conceptual model of the quality attribute, this can be helpful in 
creating a set of design approaches for it. By “model,” we don’t mean anything 
more than understanding the set of parameters to which the quality attribute is 
sensitive. For example, a model of modifiability might tell us that modifiability 
is a function of how many places in a system have to be changed in response to 
a modification, and the interconnectedness of those places. A model for perfor-
mance might tell us that throughput is a function of transactional workload, the 
dependencies among the transactions, and the number of transactions that can be 
processed in parallel. 
