16.3  Gathering ASRs by Understanding the Business Goals
299
4.	 Meeting responsibility to employees. In this category, the employees in 
question are usually those employees involved in development or those 
involved in operation. Responsibility to employees involved in develop-
ment might include ensuring that certain types of employees have a role 
in the development of this system, or it might include providing employ-
ees the opportunities to learn new skills. Responsibility to employees 
involved in operating the system might include safety, workload, or skill 
considerations.
5.	 Meeting responsibility to society. Some organizations see themselves as 
being in business to serve society. For these organizations, the system under 
development is helping them meet those responsibilities. But all organiza-
tions must discharge a responsibility to society by obeying relevant laws 
and regulations. Other topics that might come up under this category are 
resource usage, “green computing,” ethics, safety, open source issues, secu-
rity, and privacy.
6.	 Meeting responsibility to state. Government systems, almost by definition, 
are intended to meet responsibility to a state or country. Other topics that 
might come up in this category deal with export controls, regulatory confor-
mance, or supporting government initiatives.
7.	 Meeting responsibility to shareholders. There is overlap between this cate-
gory and the financial objectives category, but additional topics that might 
come up here are liability protection and certain types of regulatory confor-
mance such as, in the United States, adherence to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
8.	 Managing market position. Topics that might come up in this category are 
the strategy used to increase or hold market share, various types of intellec-
tual property protection, or the time to market.
9.	 Improving business processes. Although this category partially overlaps 
with meeting financial objectives, reasons other than cost reduction exist for 
improving business processes. It may be that improved business processes 
enable new markets, new products, or better customer support.
10.	 Managing the quality and reputation of products. Topics that might come 
up in this category include branding, recalls, types of potential users, quali-
ty of existing products, and testing support and strategies.
11.	 Managing change in environmental factors. As we said in Chapter 3, the 
business context for a system might change. This item is intended to en-
courage the stakeholders to consider what might change in the business 
goals for a system.
Expressing Business Goals 
How will you write down a business goal once you’ve learned it? Just as for 
quality attributes, a scenario makes a convenient, uniform, and clarifying way 
to express business goals. It helps ensure that all business goals are expressed 
