4.4  Specifying Quality Attribute Requirements
69
of a component may be treated differently than the first failure of that 
component.
■
■Artifact. Finally, the artifact is the portion of the system to which the 
requirement applies. Frequently this is the entire system, but occasion-
ally specific portions of the system may be called out. A failure in a 
data store may be treated differently than a failure in the metadata store. 
Modifications to the user interface may have faster response times than 
modifications to the middleware. 
To summarize how we specify quality attribute requirements, we capture 
them formally as six-part scenarios. While it is common to omit one or more of 
these six parts, particularly in the early stages of thinking about quality attributes, 
knowing that all parts are there forces the architect to consider whether each part 
is relevant. 
In summary, here are the six parts:
1.	
Source of stimulus. This is some entity (a human, a computer system, or 
any other actuator) that generated the stimulus.
2.	
Stimulus. The stimulus is a condition that requires a response when it ar-
rives at a system.
3.	
Environment. The stimulus occurs under certain conditions. The system 
may be in an overload condition or in normal operation, or some other rele-
vant state. For many systems, “normal” operation can refer to one of a num-
ber of modes. For these kinds of systems, the environment should specify in 
which mode the system is executing.
4.	
Artifact. Some artifact is stimulated. This may be a collection of systems, 
the whole system, or some piece or pieces of it.
5.	
Response. The response is the activity undertaken as the result of the arrival 
of the stimulus. 
6.	
Response measure. When the response occurs, it should be measurable in 
some fashion so that the requirement can be tested. 
We distinguish general quality attribute scenarios (which we call “general 
scenarios” for short)—those that are system independent and can, potentially, 
pertain to any system—from concrete quality attribute scenarios (concrete sce-
narios)—those that are specific to the particular system under consideration. 
We can characterize quality attributes as a collection of general scenarios. 
Of course, to translate these generic attribute characterizations into requirements 
for a particular system, the general scenarios need to be made system specific. 
Detailed examples of these scenarios will be given in Chapters 5–11. Figure 4.1 
shows the parts of a quality attribute scenario that we have just discussed. Fig-
ure 4.2 shows an example of a general scenario, in this case for availability.
