38 
Part One  Introduction	
2—Why Is Software Architecture Important?
2.15  For Further Reading
Rebecca Grinter has observed architects from a sociological standpoint. In 
[Grinter 99] she argues eloquently that the architect’s primary role is to facilitate 
stakeholder communication. The way she puts it is that architects enable com-
munication among parties who would otherwise not be able to talk to each other.
The granddaddy of papers about architecture and organization is [Conway 
68]. Conway’s law states that “organizations which design systems . . . are con-
strained to produce designs which are copies of the communication structures of 
these organizations.” 
There is much about software development through composition that re-
mains unresolved. When the components that are candidates for importation and 
reuse are distinct subsystems that have been built with conflicting architectural 
assumptions, unanticipated complications can increase the effort required to inte-
grate their functions. David Garlan and his colleagues coined the term architec-
tural mismatch to describe this situation, and their paper on it is worth reading 
[Garlan 95].
Paulish [Paulish 02] discusses architecture-based project management, and 
in particular the ways in which an architecture can help in the estimation of proj-
ect cost and schedule.
2.16  Discussion Questions
1.	
For each of the thirteen reasons articulated in this chapter why architecture 
is important, take the contrarian position: Propose a set of circumstances 
under which architecture is not necessary to achieve the result indicated. 
Justify your position. (Try to come up with different circumstances for each 
of the thirteen.)
2.	
This chapter argues that architecture brings a number of tangible benefits. 
How would you measure the benefits, on a particular project, of each of the 
thirteen points?
3.	
Suppose you want to introduce architecture-centric practices to your orga-
nization. Your management is open to the idea, but wants to know the ROI 
for doing so. How would you respond?
4.	
Prioritize the list of thirteen points in this chapter according to some criteria 
meaningful to you. Justify your answer. Or, if you could choose only two 
or three of the reasons to promote the use of architecture in a project, which 
would you choose and why?
