294 
Part Three  Architecture in the Life Cycle	
16—Architecture and Requirements
16.2  Gathering ASRs by Interviewing Stakeholders
Say your project isn’t producing a comprehensive requirements document. Or it 
is, but it’s not going to have the QAs nailed down by the time you need to start 
your design work. What do you do?
Architects are often called upon to help set the quality attribute requirements 
for a system. Projects that recognize this and encourage it are much more likely 
to be successful than those that don’t. Relish the opportunity. Stakeholders often 
have no idea what QAs they want in a system, and no amount of nagging is going 
to suddenly instill the necessary insight. If you insist on quantitative QA require-
ments, you’re likely to get numbers that are arbitrary, and there’s a good chance 
that you’ll find at least some of those requirements will be very difficult to satisfy. 
Architects often have very good ideas about what QAs are exhibited by sim-
ilar systems, and what QAs are reasonable (and reasonably straightforward) to 
provide. Architects can usually provide quick feedback as to which quality attri-
butes are going to be straightforward to achieve and which are going to be prob-
lematic or even prohibitive. And architects are the only people in the room who 
can say, “I can actually deliver an architecture that will do better than what you 
had in mind—would that be useful to you?”
Interviewing the relevant stakeholders is the surest way to learn what they 
know and need. Once again, it behooves a project to capture this critical informa-
tion in a systematic, clear, and repeatable way. Gathering this information from 
stakeholders can be achieved by many methods. One such method is the Quality 
Attribute Workshop (QAW), described in the sidebar.
The results of stakeholder interviews should include a list of architectural 
drivers and a set of QA scenarios that the stakeholders (as a group) prioritized. 
This information can be used to do the following:
■
■Refine system and software requirements
■
■Understand and clarify the system’s architectural drivers
■
■Provide rationale for why the architect subsequently made certain design 
decisions
■
■Guide the development of prototypes and simulations
■
■Influence the order in which the architecture is developed
The Quality Attribute Workshop
The QAW is a facilitated, stakeholder-focused method to generate, prior-
itize, and refine quality attribute scenarios before the software architec-
ture is completed. The QAW is focused on system-level concerns and 
