3.2  Architecture in a Project Life-Cycle Context
47
elicitation techniques involve understanding these prior systems’ characteristics. 
We discuss the architectural implications of software product lines in Chapter 25. 
Another technique that helps us understand requirements is the creation of 
prototypes. Prototypes may help to model and explore desired behavior, design 
the user interface, or analyze resource utilization. This helps to make the system 
“real” in the eyes of its stakeholders and can quickly build support for the project 
and catalyze decisions on the system’s design and the design of its user interface. 
Creating or Selecting the Architecture
In the landmark book The Mythical Man-Month, Fred Brooks argues forcefully 
and eloquently that conceptual integrity is the key to sound system design and 
that conceptual integrity can only be had by a small number of minds coming 
together to design the system’s architecture. We firmly believe this as well. Good 
architecture almost never results as an emergent phenomenon. 
Chapters 5–12 and 17 will provide practical techniques that will aid you in 
creating an architecture to achieve its behavioral and quality requirements. 
Documenting and Communicating the Architecture
For the architecture to be effective as the backbone of the project’s design, it 
must be communicated clearly and unambiguously to all of the stakeholders. De-
velopers must understand the work assignments that the architecture requires of 
them, testers must understand the task structure that the architecture imposes on 
them, management must understand the scheduling implications it contains, and 
so forth. 
Toward this end, the architecture’s documentation should be informative, 
unambiguous, and readable by many people with varied backgrounds. Architec-
tural documentation should also be minimal and aimed at the stakeholders who 
will use it; we are no fans of documentation for documentation’s sake. We dis-
cuss the documentation of architectures and provide examples of good documen-
tation practices in Chapter 18. We will also discuss keeping the architecture up to 
date when there is a change in something on which the architecture documenta-
tion depends.
Analyzing or Evaluating the Architecture
In any design process there will be multiple candidate designs considered. Some 
will be rejected immediately. Others will contend for primacy. Choosing among 
these competing designs in a rational way is one of the architect’s greatest 
challenges. 
