190 
Part Two  Quality Attributes	
12—Other Quality Attributes
A special case of efficiency is how easy it is to build (that is, compile and 
assemble) the system after a change. This becomes critical during testing. A 
recompile process that takes hours or overnight is a schedule-killer. Architects 
have control over this by managing dependencies among modules. If the archi-
tect doesn’t do this, then what often happens is that some bright-eyed developer 
writes a makefile early on, it works, and people add to it and add to it. Eventually 
the project ends up with a seven-hour compile step and very unhappy integrators 
and testers who are already behind schedule (because they always are).
Marketability
An architecture’s marketability is another quality attribute of concern. Some sys-
tems are well known by their architectures, and these architectures sometimes 
carry a meaning all their own, independent of what other quality attributes they 
bring to the system. The current craze in building cloud-based systems has taught 
us that the perception of an architecture can be more important than the qualities 
the architecture brings. Many organizations have felt they had to build cloud-
based systems (or some other technology du jour) whether or not that was the 
correct technical choice. 
12.3  Software Quality Attributes and 
System Quality Attributes
Physical systems, such as aircraft or automobiles or kitchen appliances, that rely 
on software embedded within are designed to meet a whole other litany of qual-
ity attributes: weight, size, electric consumption, power output, pollution output, 
weather resistance, battery life, and on and on. For many of these systems, safety 
tops the list (see the sidebar).
Sometimes the software architecture can have a surprising effect on the sys-
tem’s quality attributes. For example, software that makes inefficient use of com-
puting resources might require additional memory, a faster processor, a bigger 
battery, or even an additional processor. Additional processors can add to a sys-
tem’s power consumption, weight, required cabinet space, and of course expense.
Green computing is an issue of growing concern. Recently there was a con-
troversy about how much greenhouse gas was pumped into the atmosphere by 
Google’s massive processor farms. Given the daily output and the number of 
daily requests, it is possible to estimate how much greenhouse gas you cause to be 
emitted each time you ask Google to perform a search. (Current estimates range 
from 0.2 grams to 7 grams of CO2.) Green computing is all the rage. Eve Troeh, 
on the American Public Media show “Marketplace” (July 5, 2011), reports:
