6.4  Summary
115
Category
Checklist
Resource 
Management
Ensure that interoperation with another system (accepting a 
request and/or rejecting a request) can never exhaust critical 
system resources (e.g., can a flood of such requests cause 
service to be denied to legitimate users?).
Ensure that the resource load imposed by the communication 
requirements of interoperation is acceptable.
Ensure that if interoperation requires that resources be shared 
among the participating systems, an adequate arbitration policy 
is in place.
Binding Time
Determine the systems that may interoperate, and when they 
become known to each other. For each system over which you 
have control:
■
■
Ensure that it has a policy for dealing with binding to both 
known and unknown external systems. 
■
■
Ensure that it has mechanisms in place to reject unaccept-
able bindings and to log such requests.
■
■
In the case of late binding, ensure that mechanisms will 
support the discovery of relevant new services or protocols, 
or the sending of information using chosen protocols.
Choice of 
Technology
For any of your chosen technologies, are they “visible” at the 
interface boundary of a system? If so, what interoperability 
effects do they have? Do they support, undercut, or have 
no effect on the interoperability scenarios that apply to your 
system? Ensure the effects they have are acceptable.
Consider technologies that are designed to support 
interoperability, such as web services. Can they be used to 
satisfy the interoperability requirements for the systems under 
your control?
6.4  Summary
Interoperability refers to the ability of systems to usefully exchange information. 
These systems may have been constructed with the intention of exchanging infor-
mation, they may be existing systems that are desired to exchange information, 
or they may provide general services without knowing the details of the systems 
that wish to utilize those services.
The general scenario for interoperability provides the details of these dif-
ferent cases. In any interoperability case, the goal is to intentionally exchange 
information or reject the request to exchange information.
Achieving interoperability involves the relevant systems locating each other 
and then managing the interfaces so that they can exchange information.
