2.5  Carrying Early Design Decisions
31
The fact is that they do. In this case, the questioner had sat through two 
days of viewgraphs all about function, operation, user interface, and testing. 
But it was the first slide on architecture that—even though he was tired and 
wanted to go home—made him realize he didn’t understand something. 
Attendance at many architecture reviews has convinced me that seeing 
the system in a new way prods the mind and brings new questions to the 
surface. For users, architecture often serves as that new way, and the 
questions that a user poses will be behavioral in nature. In a memorable 
architecture evaluation exercise a few years ago, the user representatives 
were much more interested in what the system was going to do than in how 
it was going to do it, and naturally so. Up until that point, their only contact 
with the vendor had been through its marketers. The architect was the first 
legitimate expert on the system to whom they had access, and they didn’t 
hesitate to seize the moment.
Of course, careful and thorough requirements specifications would ame-
liorate this situation, but for a variety of reasons they are not always created 
or available. In their absence, a specification of the architecture often 
serves to trigger questions and improve clarity. It is probably more prudent 
to recognize this reality than to resist it. 
Sometimes such an exercise will reveal unreasonable requirements, 
whose utility can then be revisited. A review of this type that emphasizes 
synergy between requirements and architecture would have let the young 
architect in our story off the hook by giving him a place in the overall review 
session to address that kind of information. And the user representative 
wouldn’t have felt like a fish out of water, asking his question at a clearly 
inappropriate moment. 
—PCC
2.5  Carrying Early Design Decisions
Software architecture is a manifestation of the earliest design decisions about a 
system, and these early bindings carry enormous weight with respect to the sys-
tem’s remaining development, its deployment, and its maintenance life. It is also 
the earliest point at which these important design decisions affecting the system 
can be scrutinized.
Any design, in any discipline, can be viewed as a set of decisions. When 
painting a picture, an artist decides on the material for the canvas, on the media 
for recording—oil paint, watercolor, crayon—even before the picture is begun. 
Once the picture is begun, other decisions are immediately made: Where is the 
first line? What is its thickness? What is its shape? All of these early design de-
cisions have a strong influence on the final appearance of the picture. Each deci-
sion constrains the many decisions that follow. Each decision, in isolation, might 
appear innocent enough, but the early ones in particular have disproportionate 
weight simply because they influence and constrain so much of what follows.
