4.6  Guiding Quality Design Decisions
73
decisions so that an architect can focus attention on those design dimensions 
likely to be most troublesome. 
The seven categories of design decisions are
1.	
Allocation of responsibilities
2.	
Coordination model
3.	
Data model
4.	
Management of resources
5.	
Mapping among architectural elements
6.	
Binding time decisions
7.	
Choice of technology
These categories are not the only way to classify architectural design deci-
sions, but they do provide a rational division of concerns. These categories might 
overlap, but it’s all right if a particular decision exists in two different categories, 
because the concern of the architect is to ensure that every important decision is 
considered. Our categorization of decisions is partially based on our definition 
of software architecture in that many of our categories relate to the definition of 
structures and the relations among them.
Allocation of Responsibilities
Decisions involving allocation of responsibilities include the following:
■
■Identifying the important responsibilities, including basic system functions, 
architectural infrastructure, and satisfaction of quality attributes. 
■
■Determining how these responsibilities are allocated to non-runtime and 
runtime elements (namely, modules, components, and connectors). 
Strategies for making these decisions include functional decomposition, 
modeling real-world objects, grouping based on the major modes of system oper-
ation, or grouping based on similar quality requirements: processing frame rate, 
security level, or expected changes.
In Chapters 5–11, where we apply these design decision categories to a 
number of important quality attributes, the checklists we provide for the alloca-
tion of responsibilities category is derived systematically from understanding the 
stimuli and responses listed in the general scenario for that QA.
Coordination Model
Software works by having elements interact with each other through designed 
mechanisms. These mechanisms are collectively referred to as a coordination 
model. Decisions about the coordination model include these:
