274
after the meeting has run its course. We always enjoy seeing business cards 
exchanged with handshakes when stakeholders meet each other for the first 
time. Putting the architect in a room full of stakeholders for a couple of 
days is a very healthy thing for any project. 
But there are, as ever, tradeoffs. The big-meeting format can be costly and 
difficult to fit into an already crowded project schedule. Often the hardest aspect 
of executing any of our methods is finding two contiguous days when all the 
important stakeholders are available. Also, the travel costs associated with a big 
meeting can be substantial in a distributed organization. And some stakeholders 
might not be as forthcoming as we would like if they are in a room surrounded 
by strong-willed peers or higher-ups (although our methods use facilitation tech-
niques to try to correct for this). 
So which model is best? You already know the answer: It depends. You can 
see the tradeoffs among the different approaches. Pick the one that does the best 
job for your organization and its particularities. 
Conclusion
As you read Part III and learn about architecture methods, remember that the 
form of the method we present is the one in which the most practical experience 
resides. But:
1.	
You can always adjust the engagement model to be something other than 
everybody-in-the-same-room if that will work better for you. 
2.	
Whereas the steps of a method are nominally carried out in sequential order 
according to a set agenda, sometimes there must be dynamic modifications 
to the schedule to accommodate personnel availability or architectural 
information. Every situation is unique, and there may be times when you 
need to return briefly to an earlier step, jump forward to a later step, or 
iterate among steps, as the need dictates. 
P.S.: We do provide one example of a shortened version of one of our methods 
—the ATAM. We call this Lightweight Architecture Evaluation, and it is de-
scribed in Chapter 21.
