xix
Acknowledgments
We had a fantastic collection of reviewers for this edition, and their assistance 
helped make this a better book. Our reviewers were Muhammad Ali Babar, Felix 
Bachmann, Joe Batman, Phil Bianco, Jeromy Carriere, Roger Champagne, Steve 
Chenoweth, Viktor Clerc, Andres Diaz Pace, George Fairbanks, Rik Farenhorst, 
Ian Gorton, Greg Hartman, Rich Hilliard, James Ivers, John Klein, Philippe 
Kruchten, Phil Laplante, George Leih, Grace Lewis, John McGregor, Tommi 
Mikkonen, Linda Northrop, Ipek Ozkaya, Eltjo Poort, Eelco Rommes, Nick 
Rozanski, Jungwoo Ryoo, James Scott, Antony Tang, Arjen Uittenbogaard, Hans 
van Vliet, Hiroshi Wada, Rob Wojcik, Eoin Woods, and Liming Zhu.
In addition, we had significant contributions from Liming Zhu, Hong-
Mei Chen, Jungwoo Ryoo, Phil Laplante, James Scott, Grace Lewis, and Nick 
Rozanski that helped give the book a richer flavor than one written by just the 
three of us.
The issue of build efficiency in Chapter 12 came from Rolf Siegers and John 
McDonald of Raytheon. John Klein and Eltjo Poort contributed the “abstract 
system clock” and “sandbox mode” tactics, respectively, for testability. The list 
of stakeholders in Chapter 3 is from Documenting Software Architectures: Views 
and Beyond, Second Edition. Some of the material in Chapter 28 was inspired by a 
talk given by Anthony Lattanze called “Organizational Design Thinking” in 2011.
Joe Batman was instrumental in the creation of the seven categories of design 
decisions we describe in Chapter 4. In addition, the descriptions of the security 
view, communications view, and exception view in Chapter 18 are based on material 
that Joe wrote while planning the documentation for a real system’s architecture. 
Much of the new material on modifiability tactics was based on the work of Felix 
Bachmann and Rod Nord. James Ivers helped us with the security tactics.
Both Paul Clements and Len Bass have taken new positions since the 
last edition was published, and we thank their new respective managements 
(BigLever Software for Paul and NICTA for Len) for their willingness to support 
our work on this edition. We would also like to thank our (former) colleagues at 
the Software Engineering Institute for multiple contributions to the evolution of 
the ideas expressed in this edition.
Finally, as always, we thank our editor at Addison-Wesley, Peter Gordon, 
for providing guidance and support during the writing and production processes.
