176 
Part Two  Quality Attributes	
11—Usability
11.1  Usability General Scenario
The portions of the usability general scenarios are these:
■
■Source of stimulus. The end user (who may be in a specialized role, such as 
a system or network administrator) is always the source of the stimulus for 
usability.
■
■Stimulus. The stimulus is that the end user wishes to use a system efficient-
ly, learn to use the system, minimize the impact of errors, adapt the system, 
or configure the system. 
■
■Environment. The user actions with which usability is concerned always 
occur at runtime or at system configuration time. 
■
■Artifact. The artifact is the system or the specific portion of the system with 
which the user is interacting.
■
■Response. The system should either provide the user with the features need-
ed or anticipate the user’s needs. 
■
■Response measure. The response is measured by task time, number of 
errors, number of tasks accomplished, user satisfaction, gain of user 
knowledge, ratio of successful operations to total operations, or amount of 
time or data lost when an error occurs. 
Table 11.1 enumerates the elements of the general scenario that characterize 
usability.
Figure 11.1 gives an example of a concrete usability scenario that you could 
generate using Table 11.1: The user downloads a new application and is using it 
productively after two minutes of experimentation.
Table 11.1  Usability General Scenario
Portion of Scenario
Possible Values
Source 
End user, possibly in a specialized role
Stimulus
End user tries to use a system efficiently, learn to use the 
system, minimize the impact of errors, adapt the system, or 
configure the system.
Environment
Runtime or configuration time 
Artifacts
System or the specific portion of the system with which the 
user is interacting
Response
The system should either provide the user with the features 
needed or anticipate the user’s needs.
Response Measure 
One or more of the following: task time, number of errors, 
number of tasks accomplished, user satisfaction, gain of user 
knowledge, ratio of successful operations to total operations, 
or amount of time or data lost when an error occurs 
