134 
Part Two  Quality Attributes	
8—Performance
■
■Deadlines in processing. In the engine controller, for example, the fuel 
should ignite when the cylinder is in a particular position, thus introducing 
a processing deadline. 
■
■The throughput of the system, usually given as the number of transactions 
the system can process in a unit of time. 
■
■The jitter of the response—the allowable variation in latency. 
■
■The number of events not processed because the system was too busy to 
respond. 
From these considerations we can now describe the individual portions of a 
general scenario for performance:
■
■Source of stimulus. The stimuli arrive either from external (possibly 
multiple) or internal sources. 
■
■Stimulus. The stimuli are the event arrivals. The arrival pattern can be peri-
odic, stochastic, or sporadic, characterized by numeric parameters. 
■
■Artifact. The artifact is the system or one or more of its components.
■
■Environment. The system can be in various operational modes, such as nor-
mal, emergency, peak load, or overload.
■
■Response. The system must process the arriving events. This may cause a 
change in the system environment (e.g., from normal to overload mode). 
■
■Response measure. The response measures are the time it takes to process 
the arriving events (latency or a deadline), the variation in this time (jitter), 
the number of events that can be processed within a particular time interval 
(throughput), or a characterization of the events that cannot be processed 
(miss rate).
The general scenario for performance is summarized in Table 8.1.
Figure 8.1 gives an example concrete performance scenario: Users initiate 
transactions under normal operations. The system processes the transactions with 
an average latency of two seconds.
Table 8.1  Performance General Scenario
Portion of Scenario
Possible Values
Source
Internal or external to the system 
Stimulus
Arrival of a periodic, sporadic, or stochastic event
Artifact
System or one or more components in the system
Environment
Operational mode: normal, emergency, peak load, overload
Response
Process events, change level of service
Response Measure
Latency, deadline, throughput, jitter, miss rate
