160 
Part Two  Quality Attributes	
10—Testability
Program
Oracle
{ 
}
input
output
approved
rejected
internal state
Figure 10.1  A model of testing
For a system to be properly testable, it must be possible to control each compo-
nent’s inputs (and possibly manipulate its internal state) and then to observe its 
outputs (and possibly its internal state, either after or on the way to computing 
the outputs). Frequently this control and observation is done through the use of a 
test harness, which is specialized software (or in some cases, hardware) designed 
to exercise the software under test. Test harnesses come in various forms, such 
as a record-and-playback capability for data sent across various interfaces, or a 
simulator for an external environment in which a piece of embedded software is 
tested, or even during production (see sidebar). The test harness can provide as-
sistance in executing the test procedures and recording the output. A test harness 
can be a substantial piece of software in its own right, with its own architecture, 
stakeholders, and quality attribute requirements. 
Testing is carried out by various developers, users, or quality assurance per-
sonnel. Portions of the system or the entire system may be tested. The response 
measures for testability deal with how effective the tests are in discovering faults 
and how long it takes to perform the tests to some desired level of coverage. Test 
cases can be written by the developers, the testing group, or the customer. The 
test cases can be a portion of acceptance testing or can drive the development as 
they do in certain types of Agile methodologies.
Netflix’s Simian Army
Netflix distributes movies and television shows both via DVD and via 
streaming video. Their streaming video service has been extremely suc-
cessful. In May 2011 Netflix streaming video accounted for 24 percent of the 
Internet traffic in North America. Naturally, high availability is important to 
Netflix.
Netflix hosts their computer services in the Amazon EC2 cloud, and they 
utilize what they call a “Simian Army” as a portion of their testing process. 
They began with a Chaos Monkey, which randomly kills processes in the 
