54 
Part One  Introduction	
3—The Many Contexts of Software Architecture
Table 3.1  Stakeholders for a System and Their Interests
Name
Description
Interest in Architecture
Analyst
Responsible for analyzing the architecture to make sure it meets certain 
critical quality attribute requirements. Analysts are often specialized; for 
instance, performance analysts, safety analysts, and security analysts 
may have well-defined positions in a project.
Analyzing satisfaction of quality attribute requirements of the system 
based on its architecture.
Architect
Responsible for the development of the architecture and its 
documentation. Focus and responsibility is on the system.
Negotiating and making tradeoffs among competing requirements 
and design approaches. A vessel for recording design decisions. 
Providing evidence that the architecture satisfies its requirements.
Business  
Manager
Responsible for the functioning of the business/organizational entity 
that owns the system. Includes managerial/executive responsibility, 
responsibility for defining business processes, etc. 
Understanding the ability of the architecture to meet business goals.
Conformance 
Checker
Responsible for assuring conformance to standards and processes to 
provide confidence in a product’s suitability.
Basis for conformance checking, for assurance that implementations 
have been faithful to the architectural prescriptions.
Customer
Pays for the system and ensures its delivery. The customer often speaks 
for or represents the end user, especially in a government acquisition 
context. 
Assuring required functionality and quality will be delivered; gauging 
progress; estimating cost; and setting expectations for what will be 
delivered, when, and for how much.
Database 
Administrator
Involved in many aspects of the data stores, including database design, 
data analysis, data modeling and optimization, installation of database 
software, and monitoring and administration of database security.
Understanding how data is created, used, and updated by other 
architectural elements, and what properties the data and database 
must have for the overall system to meet its quality goals.
Deployer
Responsible for accepting the completed system from the development 
effort and deploying it, making it operational, and fulfilling its allocated 
business function.
Understanding the architectural elements that are delivered and 
to be installed at the customer or end user’s site, and their overall 
responsibility toward system function.
Designer
Responsible for systems and/or software design downstream of the 
architecture, applying the architecture to meet specific requirements of the 
parts for which they are responsible.
Resolving resource contention and establishing performance and 
other kinds of runtime resource consumption budgets. Understand-
ing how their part will communicate and interact with other parts of 
the system.
Evaluator
Responsible for conducting a formal evaluation of the architecture (and its 
documentation) against some clearly defined criteria.
Evaluating the architecture’s ability to deliver required behavior and 
quality attributes.
