12.2  Other Categories of Quality Attributes
189
12.2  Other Categories of Quality Attributes
We have primarily focused on product qualities in our discussions of quality at-
tributes, but there are other types of quality attributes that measure “goodness” of 
something other than the final product. Here are three: 
Conceptual Integrity of the Architecture
Conceptual integrity refers to consistency in the design of the architecture, and it 
contributes to the understandability of the architecture and leads to fewer errors 
of confusion. Conceptual integrity demands that the same thing is done in the 
same way through the architecture. In an architecture with conceptual integrity, 
less is more. For example, there are countless ways that components can send 
information to each other: messages, data structures, signaling of events, and so 
forth. An architecture with conceptual integrity would feature one way only, and 
only provide alternatives if there was a compelling reason to do so. Similarly, 
components should all report and handle errors in the same way, log events or 
transactions in the same way, interact with the user in the same way, and so forth.
Quality in Use
ISO/IEC 25010, which we discuss in Section 12.4, has a category of qualities that 
pertain to the use of the system by various stakeholders. For example, time-to-
market is an important characteristic of a system, but it is not discernible from an 
examination of the product itself. Some of the qualities in this category are these:
■
■Effectiveness. This refers to the distinction between building the system 
correctly (the system performs according to its requirements) and building 
the correct system (the system performs in the manner the user wishes). 
Effectiveness is a measure of whether the system is correct.
■
■Efficiency. The effort and time required to develop a system. Put another 
way, what is the architecture’s impact on the project’s cost and schedule? 
Would a different set of architectural choices have resulted in a system 
that would be faster or cheaper to bring to fruition? Efficiency can include 
training time for developers; an architecture that uses technology unfamiliar 
to the staff on hand is less buildable. Is the architecture appropriate for the 
organization in terms of its experience and its available supporting infra-
structure (such as test facilities or development environments)?
■
■Freedom from risk. The degree to which a product or system affects 
economic status, human life, health, or the environment.
