148 
Part Two  Quality Attributes	
9—Security
Other characteristics that are used to support CIA are these:
4.	
Authentication verifies the identities of the parties to a transaction and 
checks if they are truly who they claim to be. For example, when you get 
an email purporting to come from a bank, authentication guarantees that it 
actually comes from the bank.
5.	
Nonrepudiation guarantees that the sender of a message cannot later deny 
having sent the message, and that the recipient cannot deny having received 
the message. For example, you cannot deny ordering something from the 
Internet, or the merchant cannot disclaim getting your order.
6.	
Authorization grants a user the privileges to perform a task. For example, an 
online banking system authorizes a legitimate user to access his account.
We will use these characteristics in our general scenarios for security. Approaches 
to achieving security can be characterized as those that detect attacks, those that 
resist attacks, those that react to attacks, and those that recover from successful 
attacks. The objects that are being protected from attacks are data at rest, data in 
transit, and computational processes.
9.1  Security General Scenario
One technique that is used in the security domain is threat modeling. An “attack 
tree,” similar to a fault tree discussed in Chapter 5, is used by security engineers 
to determine possible threats. The root is a successful attack and the nodes are 
possible direct causes of that successful attack. Children nodes decompose the 
direct causes, and so forth. An attack is an attempt to break CIA, and the leaves of 
attack trees would be the stimulus in the scenario. The response to the attack is to 
preserve CIA or deter attackers through monitoring of their activities. From these 
considerations we can now describe the individual portions of a security general 
scenario. These are summarized in Table 9.1, and an example security scenario is 
given in Figure 9.1.
■
■Source of stimulus. The source of the attack may be either a human or 
another system. It may have been previously identified (either correctly or 
incorrectly) or may be currently unknown. A human attacker may be from 
outside the organization or from inside the organization. 
■
■Stimulus. The stimulus is an attack. We characterize this as an unauthorized 
attempt to display data, change or delete data, access system services, 
change the system’s behavior, or reduce availability.
■
■Artifact. The target of the attack can be either the services of the system, 
the data within it, or the data produced or consumed by the system. Some 
attacks are made on particular components of the system known to be 
vulnerable. 
