5.1  Availability General Scenario
85
Adding up the critical column gives us the probability of a critical system 
failure: 5 × 10–5 + 5 × 10–5 + 5 × 10–5 + 5 × 10–5 = 2 × 10–4. 
These techniques, and others, are only as good as the knowledge and 
experience of the people who populate their respective data structures. 
One of the worst mistakes you can make, according to the NASA hand-
book, is to let form take priority over substance. That is, don’t let safety 
engineering become a matter of just filling out the tables. Instead, keep 
pressing to find out what else can go wrong, and then plan for it.
5.1  Availability General Scenario
From these considerations we can now describe the individual portions of an 
availability general scenario. These are summarized in Table 5.3: 
■
■Source of stimulus. We differentiate between internal and external origins of 
faults or failure because the desired system response may be different. 
■
■Stimulus. A fault of one of the following classes occurs: 
■
■Omission. A component fails to respond to an input.
■
■Crash. The component repeatedly suffers omission faults.
■
■Timing. A component responds but the response is early or late.
■
■Response. A component responds with an incorrect value.
■
■Artifact. This specifies the resource that is required to be highly available, 
such as a processor, communication channel, process, or storage.
■
■Environment. The state of the system when the fault or failure occurs may 
also affect the desired system response. For example, if the system has al-
ready seen some faults and is operating in other than normal mode, it may 
be desirable to shut it down totally. However, if this is the first fault ob-
served, some degradation of response time or function may be preferred. 
■
■Response. There are a number of possible reactions to a system fault. 
First, the fault must be detected and isolated (correlated) before any other 
response is possible. (One exception to this is when the fault is prevented 
before it occurs.) After the fault is detected, the system must recover from 
it. Actions associated with these possibilities include logging the failure, 
notifying selected users or other systems, taking actions to limit the damage 
caused by the fault, switching to a degraded mode with either less capacity 
or less function, shutting down external systems, or becoming unavailable 
during repair.
■
■Response measure. The response measure can specify an availability per-
centage, or it can specify a time to detect the fault, time to repair the fault, 
times or time intervals during which the system must be available, or the 
duration for which the system must be available.
