15.7  Discussion Questions
289
The article by Graham, Kazman, and Walmsley [Graham 07] provides sub-
stantially more detail on the WebArrow case study of agile architecting, includ-
ing a number of architectural diagrams and additional description of the experi-
mentation performed. 
Ward Cunningham first coined the term “technical debt” in 1992 [Cunning-
ham 92]. Brown et al. [Brown 10], building in part on Cunningham’s work, offer 
an economics-driven perspective on how to enable agility through architecture. 
Robert Nord, Jim Tomayko, and Rob Wojcik [Nord 04] have analyzed the 
relationship between several of the Software Engineering Institute’s architecture 
methods and Extreme Programming. Grady Booch has blogged extensively on the 
relationship between architecture and Agile in his blog, for example [Booch 11].
Felix Bachmann [Bachmann 11] has provided a concrete example of a light-
weight version of the ATAM that fits well with Agile projects and principles.
15.7  Discussion Questions
1.	
How would you employ the Agile practices of pair programming, frequent 
team interaction, and dedicated customer involvement in a distributed de-
velopment environment?
2.	
Suppose, as a supporter of architecture practices, you were asked to write 
an Architecture Manifesto that was modeled on the Agile Manifesto. What 
would it look like?
3.	
Agile projects must be budgeted and scheduled like any other. How would 
you do that? Does an architecture help or hinder this process?
4.	
What do you think are the essential skills for an architect operating in an 
Agile context? How do you suppose they differ for an architect working in 
a non-Agile project?
5.	
The Agile Manifesto professes to value individuals and interactions over 
processes and tools. Rationalize this statement in terms of the role of tools 
in the modern software development process: compilers, integrated devel-
opment environments, debuggers, configuration managers, automatic test 
tools, and build and configuration tools.
6.	
Critique the Agile Manifesto in the context of a 200-developer, 5-mil-
lion-line project with an expected lifetime of 20 years.
