76 
Part Two  Quality Attributes	
4—Understanding Quality Attributes
at some time after code time, you can insulate yourself from the effects caused 
by porting your system to another platform at some cost. Making this decision 
depends on the costs incurred by having to modify an early binding compared to 
the costs incurred by implementing the mechanisms involved in the late binding. 
Choice of Technology
Every architecture decision must eventually be realized using a specific tech-
nology. Sometimes the technology selection is made by others, before the in-
tentional architecture design process begins. In this case, the chosen technology 
becomes a constraint on decisions in each of our seven categories. In other cases, 
the architect must choose a suitable technology to realize a decision in every one 
of the categories.
Choice of technology decisions involve the following:
■
■Deciding which technologies are available to realize the decisions made in 
the other categories.
■
■Determining whether the available tools to support this technology choice 
(IDEs, simulators, testing tools, etc.) are adequate for development to 
proceed.
■
■Determining the extent of internal familiarity as well as the degree of exter-
nal support available for the technology (such as courses, tutorials, exam-
ples, and availability of contractors who can provide expertise in a crunch) 
and deciding whether this is adequate to proceed.
■
■Determining the side effects of choosing a technology, such as a required 
coordination model or constrained resource management opportunities.
■
■Determining whether a new technology is compatible with the existing 
technology stack. For example, can the new technology run on top of or 
alongside the existing technology stack? Can it communicate with the exist-
ing technology stack? Can the new technology be monitored and managed?
4.7  Summary
Requirements for a system come in three categories:
1.	
Functional. These requirements are satisfied by including an appropriate set 
of responsibilities within the design.
2.	
Quality attribute. These requirements are satisfied by the structures and 
behaviors of the architecture.
3.	
Constraints. A constraint is a design decision that’s already been made.
