3.9  For Further Reading
59
3.8  Summary 
Architectures exist in four different contexts.
1.	
Technical. The technical context includes the achievement of quality 
attribute requirements. We spend Part II discussing how to do this. The 
technical context also includes the current technology. The cloud (discussed 
in Chapter 26) and mobile computing (discussed in Chapter 27) are 
important current technologies.
2.	
Project life cycle. Regardless of the software development methodology 
you use, you must make a business case for the system, understand the 
architecturally significant requirements, create or select the architecture, 
document and communicate the architecture, analyze or evaluate the archi-
tecture, implement and test the system based on the architecture, and ensure 
that the implementation conforms to the architecture.
3.	
Business. The system created from the architecture must satisfy the busi-
ness goals of a wide variety of stakeholders, each of whom has different 
expectations for the system. The architecture is also influenced by and in-
fluences the structure of the development organization.
4.	
Professional. You must have certain skills and knowledge to be an architect, 
and there are certain duties that you must perform as an architect. These 
are influenced not only by coursework and reading but also by your 
experiences.
An architecture has some influences that lead to its creation, and its exis-
tence has an impact on the architect, the organization, and, potentially, the indus-
try. We call this cycle the Architecture Influence Cycle.
3.9  For Further Reading
The product line framework produced by the Software Engineering Institute in-
cludes a discussion of business cases from which we drew [SEI 12].
The SEI has also published a case study of Celsius Tech that includes an ex-
ample of how organizations and customers change over time [Brownsword 96]. 
Several other SEI reports discuss how to find business goals and the busi-
ness goals that have been articulated by certain organizations [Kazman 05, Cle-
ments 10b]. 
Ruth Malan and Dana Bredemeyer provide a description of how an architect 
can build buy-in within an organization [Malan 00].
