14.1  Modeling Architectures to Enable Quality Attribute Analysis
261
In Search of a Grand Unified Theory for Quality Attributes
How do we create analytic models for those quality attribute aspects for 
which none currently exist? I do not know the answer to this question, but 
if we had a basis set for quality attributes, we would be in a better position 
to create and validate quality attribute models. By basis set I mean a set 
of orthogonal concepts that allow one to define the existing set of quality 
attributes. Currently there is much overlap among quality attributes; a 
basis set would enable discussion of tradeoffs in terms of a common set 
of fundamental and possibly quantifiable concepts. Once we have a basis 
set, we could develop analytic models for each of the elements of the set, 
and then an analytic model for a particular quality attribute becomes a 
composition of the models of the portions of the basis set that make up 
that quality attribute. 
What are some of the elements of this basis set? Here are some of my 
candidates:
■
■
Time. Time is the basis for performance, some aspects of availability, 
and some aspects of usability. Time will surely be one of the fundamen-
tal concepts for defining quality attributes. 
■
■
Dependencies among structural elements. Modifiability, security, avail-
ability, and performance depend in some form or another on the strength 
of connections among various structural elements. Coupling is a form 
of dependency. Attacks depend on being able to move from one com-
promised element to a currently uncompromised element through some 
dependency. Fault propagation depends on dependencies. And one of 
the key elements of performance analysis is the dependency of one 
computation on another. Enumeration of the fundamental forms of de-
pendency and their properties will enable better understanding of many 
quality attributes and their interaction. 
■
■
Access. How does a system promote or deny access through various 
mechanisms? Usability is concerned with allowing smooth access for 
humans; security is concerned with allowing smooth access for some set 
of requests but denying access to another set of requests. Interoperabili-
ty is concerned with establishing connections and accessing information. 
Race conditions, which undermine availability, come about through un-
mediated access to critical computations.
These are some of my candidates. I am sure there are others. The 
general problem is to define a set of candidates for the basis set and then 
show how current definitions of various quality attributes can be recast in 
terms of the elements of the basis set. I am convinced that this is a problem 
that needs to be solved prior to making substantial progress in the quest for 
a rich enough set of analytic models to enable prediction of system behav-
ior across the quality attributes important for a system.
—LB
