4.5  Achieving Quality Attributes through Tactics
71
Not My Problem
One time I was doing an architecture analysis on a complex system cre-
ated by and for Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory. If you visit their 
website (www.llnl.gov) and try to figure out what Livermore Labs does, you 
will see the word “security” mentioned over and over. The lab focuses on 
nuclear security, international and domestic security, and environmental 
and energy security. Serious stuff . . .
Keeping this emphasis in mind, I asked them to describe the quality 
attributes of concern for the system that I was analyzing. I’m sure you can 
imagine my surprise when security wasn’t mentioned once! The system 
stakeholders mentioned performance, modifiability, evolvability, interoper-
ability, configurability, and portability, and one or two more, but the word 
security never passed their lips. 
Being a good analyst, I questioned this seemingly shocking and obvious 
omission. Their answer was simple and, in retrospect, straightforward: “We 
don’t care about it. Our systems are not connected to any external net-
work and we have barbed-wire fences and guards with machine guns.” Of 
course, someone at Livermore Labs was very interested in security. But it 
was clearly not the software architects.
—RK
The focus of a tactic is on a single quality attribute response. Within a tactic, 
there is no consideration of tradeoffs. Tradeoffs must be explicitly considered 
and controlled by the designer. In this respect, tactics differ from architectural 
patterns, where tradeoffs are built into the pattern. (We visit the relation between 
tactics and patterns in Chapter 14. Chapter 13 explains how sets of tactics for a 
quality attribute can be constructed, which are the steps we used to produce the 
set in this book.)
A system design consists of a collection of decisions. Some of these deci-
sions help control the quality attribute responses; others ensure achievement of 
system functionality. We represent the relationship between stimulus, tactics, and 
response in Figure 4.3. The tactics, like design patterns, are design techniques 
that architects have been using for years. Our contribution is to isolate, catalog, 
and describe them. We are not inventing tactics here, we are just capturing what 
architects do in practice. 
Why do we do this? There are three reasons: 
1.	
Design patterns are complex; they typically consist of a bundle of design 
decisions. But patterns are often difficult to apply as is; architects need to 
modify and adapt them. By understanding the role of tactics, an architect 
can more easily assess the options for augmenting an existing pattern to 
achieve a quality attribute goal. 
