14 
Part One  Introduction	
1—What Is Software Architecture?
could be allocated to a separate physical thread later in the design process. 
The concurrency structure is used early in the design process to identify the 
requirements to manage the issues associated with concurrent execution.
Some Useful Allocation Structures
Allocation structures define how the elements from C&C or module structures 
map onto things that are not software: typically hardware, teams, and file sys-
tems. Useful allocation structures include these:
■
■Deployment structure. The deployment structure shows how software is 
assigned to hardware processing and communication elements. The ele-
ments are software elements (usually a process from a C&C view), hard-
ware entities (processors), and communication pathways. Relations are 
allocated-to, showing on which physical units the software elements reside, 
and migrates-to if the allocation is dynamic. This structure can be used to 
reason about performance, data integrity, security, and availability. It is of 
particular interest in distributed and parallel systems. 
■
■Implementation structure. This structure shows how software elements 
(usually modules) are mapped to the file structure(s) in the system’s devel-
opment, integration, or configuration control environments. This is critical 
for the management of development activities and build processes. (In prac-
tice, a screenshot of your development environment tool, which manages 
the implementation environment, often makes a very useful and sufficient 
diagram of your implementation view.)
■
■Work assignment structure. This structure assigns responsibility for im-
plementing and integrating the modules to the teams who will carry it out. 
Having a work assignment structure be part of the architecture makes it 
clear that the decision about who does the work has architectural as well as 
management implications. The architect will know the expertise required 
on each team. Also, on large multi-sourced distributed development proj-
ects, the work assignment structure is the means for calling out units of 
functional commonality and assigning those to a single team, rather than 
having them implemented by everyone who needs them. This structure will 
also determine the major communication pathways among the teams: regu-
lar teleconferences, wikis, email lists, and so forth.
Table 1.1 summarizes these structures. The table lists the meaning of the 
elements and relations in each structure and tells what each might be used for. 
Relating Structures to Each Other
Each of these structures provides a different perspective and design handle on a 
system, and each is valid and useful in its own right. Although the structures give 
