3.3  Architecture in a Business Context
49
3.3  Architecture in a Business Context
Architectures and systems are not constructed frivolously. They serve some business 
purposes, although as mentioned before, these purposes may change over time. 
Architectures and Business Goals
Systems are created to satisfy the business goals of one or more organizations. 
Development organizations want to make a profit, or capture market, or stay in 
business, or help their customers do their jobs better, or keep their staff gainfully 
employed, or make their stockholders happy, or a little bit of each. Customers 
have their own goals for acquiring a system, usually involving some aspect of 
making their lives easier or more productive. Other organizations involved in a 
project’s life cycle, such as subcontractors or government regulatory agencies, 
have their own goals dealing with the system.
Architects need to understand who the vested organizations are and what their 
goals are. Many of these goals will have a profound influence on the architecture. 
Many business goals will be manifested as quality attribute requirements. 
In fact, every quality attribute—such as a user-visible response time or platform 
flexibility or ironclad security or any of a dozen other needs—should originate 
from some higher purpose that can be described in terms of added value. If we 
ask, for example, “Why do you want this system to have a really fast response 
time?” we might hear that this will differentiate the product from its competition 
and let the developing organization capture market share. 
Some business goals, however, will not show up in the form of requirements. 
We know of one software architect who was informed by his manager that the 
architecture should include a database. The architect was perplexed, because the 
requirements for the system really didn’t warrant a database and the architect’s 
design had nicely avoided putting one in, thereby simplifying the design and 
lowering the cost of the product. The architect was perplexed, that is, until the 
manager reminded the architect that the company’s database department was cur-
rently overstaffed and underworked. They needed something to do! The architect 
put in the database, and all was well. That kind of business goal—keeping staff 
gainfully employed—is not likely to show up in any requirements document, but 
if the architect had failed to meet it, the manager would have considered the ar-
chitecture as unacceptable, just as the customer would have if it failed to provide 
a key piece of functionality.
Still other business goals have no effect on the architecture whatsoever. A 
business goal to lower costs might be realized by asking employees to work from 
home, or turn the office thermostats down in the winter, or using less paper in the 
printers. Chapter 16 will deal with uncovering business goals and the require-
ments they lead to.
