6.2  Tactics for Interoperability
113
in achieving a significant level of interoperability that we rely on in almost 
every domain. However, while standards are useful and in many ways in-
dispensable, expectations of what can be achieved through standards are 
unrealistic. Here are some of the challenges that organizations face related 
to standards and interoperability:
1.	 Ideally, every implementation of a standard should be identical 
and thus completely interoperable with any other implementation. 
However, this is far from reality. Standards, when incorporated into 
products, tools, and services, undergo customizations and exten-
sions because every vendor wants to create a unique selling point as 
a competitive advantage.
2.	 Standards are often deliberately open-ended and provide exten-
sion points. The actual implementation of these extension points 
is left to the discretion of implementers, leading to proprietary 
implementations.
3.	 Standards, like any technology, have a life cycle of their own and 
evolve over time in compatible and noncompatible ways. Deciding 
when to adopt a new or revised standard is a critical decision for or-
ganizations. Committing to a new standard that is not ready or even-
tually not adopted by the community is a big risk for organizations. 
On the other hand, waiting too long may also become a problem, 
which can lead to unsupported products, incompatibilities, and work-
arounds, because everyone else is using the standard.
4.	 Within the software community, there are as many bad standards as 
there are engineers with opinions. Bad standards include underspe-
cified, overspecified, inconsistently specified, unstable, or irrelevant 
standards. 
5.	 It is quite common for standards to be championed by competing 
organizations, resulting in conflicting standards due to overlap or mu-
tual exclusion.
6.	 For new and rapidly emerging domains, the argument often made is 
that standardization will be destructive because it will hinder flexibil-
ity: premature standardization will force the use of an inadequate ap-
proach and lead to abandoning other presumably better approaches. 
So what do organizations do in the meantime?
What these challenges illustrate is that because of the way in which 
standards are usually created and evolved, we cannot let standards drive 
our architectures. We need to architect systems first and then decide which 
standards can support desired system requirements and qualities. This ap-
proach allows standards to change and evolve without affecting the overall 
architecture of the system. 
I once heard someone in a keynote address say that “The nice thing 
about standards is that there are so many to choose from.”
