	
5—Availability  81
From this formula it is possible to calculate probabilities and make claims 
like “99.999 percent availability,” or a 0.001 percent probability that the system 
will not be operational when needed. Scheduled downtimes (when the system is 
intentionally taken out of service) may not be considered when calculating avail-
ability, because the system is deemed “not needed” then; of course, this depends 
on the specific requirements for the system, often encoded in service-level agree-
ments (SLAs). This arrangement may lead to seemingly odd situations where the 
system is down and users are waiting for it, but the downtime is scheduled and so 
is not counted against any availability requirements. 
In operational systems, faults are detected and correlated prior to being re-
ported and repaired. Fault correlation logic will categorize a fault according to 
its severity (critical, major, or minor) and service impact (service-affecting or 
non-service-affecting) in order to provide the system operator with timely and ac-
curate system status and allow for the appropriate repair strategy to be employed. 
The repair strategy may be automated or may require manual intervention.
The availability provided by a computer system or hosting service is fre-
quently expressed as a service-level agreement. This SLA specifies the availabil-
ity level that is guaranteed and, usually, the penalties that the computer system or 
hosting service will suffer if the SLA is violated. The SLA that Amazon provides 
for its EC2 cloud service is
AWS will use commercially reasonable efforts to make Amazon EC2 
available with an Annual Uptime Percentage [defined elsewhere] of at 
least 99.95% during the Service Year. In the event Amazon EC2 does 
not meet the Annual Uptime Percentage commitment, you will be 
eligible to receive a Service Credit as described below.
Table 5.1 provides examples of system availability requirements and associated 
threshold values for acceptable system downtime, measured over observation pe-
riods of 90 days and one year. The term high availability typically refers to de-
signs targeting availability of 99.999 percent (“5 nines”) or greater. By definition 
or convention, only unscheduled outages contribute to system downtime.
Table 5.1  System Availability Requirements
Availability
Downtime/90 Days
Downtime/Year
99.0%
21 hours, 36 minutes
3 days, 15.6 hours
99.9%
2 hours, 10 minutes
8 hours, 0 minutes, 46 seconds
99.99%
12 minutes, 58 seconds
52 minutes, 34 seconds
99.999%
1 minute, 18 seconds
5 minutes, 15 seconds
99.9999%
8 seconds
32 seconds
