298 
Part Three  Architecture in the Life Cycle	
16—Architecture and Requirements
Table 16.2  A List of Standard Business Goal Categories
1.
Contributing to the growth and continuity of the organization
2.
Meeting financial objectives
3.
Meeting personal objectives
4.
Meeting responsibility to employees
5.
Meeting responsibility to society
6.
Meeting responsibility to state
7.
Meeting responsibility to shareholders
8.
Managing market position
9.
Improving business processes
10.
Managing the quality and reputation of products 
11.
Managing change in environmental factors
These categories are not completely orthogonal. Some business goals may 
fit into more than one category, and that’s all right. In an elicitation method, the 
categories should prompt questions about the existence of organizational busi-
ness goals that fall into that category. If the categories overlap, then this might 
cause us to ask redundant questions. This is not harmful and could well be help-
ful. The utility of these categories is to help identify all business goals, not to 
provide a taxonomy.
1.	 Contributing to the growth and continuity of the organization. How does 
the system being developed contribute to the growth and continuity of 
the organization? In one experience using this business goal category, 
the system being developed was the sole reason for the existence of the 
organization. If the system was not successful, the organization would 
cease to exist. Other topics that might come up in this category deal with 
market share, product lines, and international sales.
2.	 Meeting financial objectives. This category includes revenue generated or 
saved by the system. The system may be for sale, either in standalone form 
or by providing a service, in which case it generates revenue. The system 
may be for use in an internal process, in which case it should make those 
processes more effective or more efficient. Also in this category is the cost 
of development, deployment, and operation of the system. But this category 
can also include financial objectives of individuals: a manager hoping for a 
raise, for example, or a shareholder expecting a dividend.
3.	 Meeting personal objectives. Individuals have various goals associated with 
the construction of a system. They may range from “I want to enhance my 
reputation by the success of this system” to “I want to learn new technol-
ogies” to “I want to gain experience with a different portion of the devel-
opment process than in the past.” In any case, it is possible that technical 
decisions are influenced by personal objectives.
