16.2  Gathering ASRs by Interviewing Stakeholders
295
specifically the role that software will play in the system. The QAW is 
keenly dependent on the participation of system stakeholders.1
The QAW involves the following steps:
Step 1: QAW Presentation and Introductions. QAW facilitators describe 
the motivation for the QAW and explain each step of the method. Everyone 
introduces themselves, briefly stating their background, their role in the 
organization, and their relationship to the system being built.
Step 2: Business/Mission Presentation. The stakeholder representing the 
business concerns behind the system (typically a manager or management 
representative) spends about one hour presenting the system’s business 
context, broad functional requirements, constraints, and known quality 
attribute requirements. The quality attributes that will be refined in later 
steps will be derived largely from the business/mission needs presented in 
this step.
Step 3: Architectural Plan Presentation. Although a detailed system 
or software architecture might not exist, it is possible that broad system 
descriptions, context drawings, or other artifacts have been created that 
describe some of the system’s technical details. At this point in the work-
shop, the architect will present the system architectural plans as they stand. 
This lets stakeholders know the current architectural thinking, to the extent 
that it exists.
Step 4: Identification of Architectural Drivers. The facilitators will share 
their list of key architectural drivers that they assembled during steps 2 and 
3, and ask the stakeholders for clarifications, additions, deletions, and cor-
rections. The idea is to reach a consensus on a distilled list of architectural 
drivers that includes overall requirements, business drivers, constraints, 
and quality attributes. 
Step 5: Scenario Brainstorming. Each stakeholder expresses a scenario 
representing his or her concerns with respect to the system. Facilitators 
ensure that each scenario has an explicit stimulus and response. The 
facilitators ensure that at least one representative scenario exists for each 
architectural driver listed in step 4.
Step 6: Scenario Consolidation. After the scenario brainstorming, similar 
scenarios are consolidated where reasonable. Facilitators ask stakeholders 
to identify those scenarios that are very similar in content. Scenarios that 
are similar are merged, as long as the people who proposed them agree 
and feel that their scenarios will not be diluted in the process. Consolidation 
helps to prevent votes from being spread across several scenarios that 
are expressing the same concern. Consolidating almost-alike scenarios 
assures that the underlying concern will get all of the votes it is due. 
Step 7: Scenario Prioritization. Prioritization of the scenarios is ac-
complished by allocating each stakeholder a number of votes equal to 30 
percent of the total number of scenarios generated after consolidation. 
Stakeholders can allocate any number of their votes to any scenario or 
1.  This material was adapted from [Barbacci 03].
