260 
Part Two  Quality Attributes	
14—Quality Attribute Modeling and Analysis
As the table shows, the field still has a great deal of work to do to achieve 
the quest for well-validated analytic models to predict behavior, but there is a 
great deal of activity in this area (see the “For Further Reading” section for ad-
ditional papers). The remainder of this chapter deals with techniques that can be 
used in addition to analytic models.
14.2  Quality Attribute Checklists
For some quality attributes, checklists exist to enable the architect to test com-
pliance or to guide the architect when making design decisions. Quality attribute 
checklists can come from industry consortia, from government organizations, 
or from private organizations. In large organizations they may be developed in 
house. 
 These checklists can be specific to one or more quality attributes; checklists 
for safety, security, and usability are common. Or they may be focused on a par-
ticular domain; there are security checklists for the financial industry, industrial 
process control, and the electric energy sector. They may even focus on some 
specific aspect of a single quality attribute: cancel for usability, as an example. 
For the purposes of certification or regulation, the checklists can be used by 
auditors as well as by the architect. For example, two of the items on the checklist 
of the Payment Card Industry (PCI) are to only persist credit card numbers in an 
encrypted form and to never persist the security code from the back of the credit 
card. An auditor can ask to examine stored credit card data to determine whether 
it has been encrypted. The auditor can also examine the schema for data being 
stored to see whether the security code has been included.
This example reveals that design and analysis are often two sides of the 
same coin. By considering the kinds of analysis to which a system will be sub-
jected (in this case, an audit), the architect will be led into making important 
early architectural decisions (making the decisions the auditors will want to find).
Security checklists usually have heavy process components. For example, a 
security checklist might say that there should be an explicit security policy within 
an organization, and a cognizant security officer to ensure compliance with the 
policy. They also have technical components that the architect needs to examine 
to determine the implications on the architecture of the system being designed or 
evaluated. For example, the following is an item from a security checklist gener-
ated by a group chartered by an organization of electric producers and distribu-
tors. It pertains to embedded systems delivering electricity to your home:
A designated system or systems shall daily or on request obtain current 
version numbers, installation date, configuration settings, patch level 
on all elements of a [portion of the electric distribution] system, 
