180 
Part Two  Quality Attributes	
11—Usability
■
■Aggregate. When a user is performing repetitive operations, or operations 
that affect a large number of objects in the same way, it is useful to provide 
the ability to aggregate the lower-level objects into a single group, so that 
the operation may be applied to the group, thus freeing the user from the 
drudgery (and potential for mistakes) of doing the same operation repeated-
ly. For example, aggregate all of the objects in a slide and change the text to 
14-point font.
Support System Initiative
When the system takes the initiative, it must rely on a model of the user, the 
task being undertaken by the user, or the system state itself. Each model requires 
various types of input to accomplish its initiative. The support system initiative 
tactics are those that identify the models the system uses to predict either its 
own behavior or the user’s intention. Encapsulating this information will make 
it easier for it to be tailored or modified. Tailoring and modification can be either 
dynamically based on past user behavior or offline during development. These 
tactics are the following:
■
■Maintain task model. The task model is used to determine context so the 
system can have some idea of what the user is attempting and provide 
assistance. For example, knowing that sentences start with capital letters 
would allow an application to correct a lowercase letter in that position.
■
■Maintain user model. This model explicitly represents the user’s knowledge 
of the system, the user’s behavior in terms of expected response time, and 
other aspects specific to a user or a class of users. For example, maintaining 
a user model allows the system to pace mouse selection so that not all of 
the document is selected when scrolling is required. Or a model can control 
the amount of assistance and suggestions automatically provided to a user. 
A special case of this tactic is commonly found in user interface customiza-
tion, wherein a user can explicitly modify the system’s user model.
■
■Maintain system model. Here the system maintains an explicit model 
of itself. This is used to determine expected system behavior so that 
appropriate feedback can be given to the user. A common manifestation of 
a system model is a progress bar that predicts the time needed to complete 
the current activity.
Figure 11.3 shows a summary of the tactics to achieve usability.
