272
Here in Part III we turn our attention to how to constructively apply that 
knowledge within the context of a particular software development project. Here 
is where software architecture meets software engineering: How do architecture 
concerns affect the gathering of requirements, the carrying out of design deci-
sions, the validation and capturing of the design, and the transformation of design 
into implementation? In Part III, we’ll find out.
A Word about Methods
Because this is a book about software architecture in practice, we’ve tried to spell 
out specific methods in enough detail so that you can emulate them. You’ll see 
PALM, a method for eliciting business goals that an architecture should accom-
modate. You’ll see Views and Beyond, an approach for documenting architecture 
in a set of views that serve stakeholders and their concerns. You’ll see ATAM, a 
method for evaluating an architecture against stakeholders’ ideas of what quality 
attributes it should provide. You’ll see CBAM, a method for assessing which evo-
lutionary path of an architecture will best serve stakeholders’ needs. 
All of these methods rely in some way or another on tapping stakehold-
ers’ knowledge about what an architecture under development should provide. As 
presented in their respective chapters, each of these methods includes a similar 
process of identifying the relevant stakeholders, putting them in a room together, 
presenting a briefing about the method that the stakeholders have been assembled 
to participate in, and then launching into the method. 
So why is it necessary to put all of the stakeholders in the same room? The 
short answer is that it isn’t. There are (at least) three major engagement models for 
conducting an architecture-focused method. Why three? Because we have identified 
two important factors, each of which has two values, that describe four potential en-
gagement models for gathering information from stakeholders. These two factors are
1.	
Location (co-located or distributed)
2.	
Synchronicity (synchronous or asynchronous) 
One option (co-located and asynchronous) makes no sense, and so we are 
left with three viable engagement models. The advantages and disadvantages 
we’ve observed of each engagement model follow. 
Why has the big-meeting format (co-located, synchronous) tended to pre-
vail? There are several reasons:
