12.1  Other Important Quality Attributes
187
Scalability 
Two kinds of scalability are horizontal scalability and vertical scalability. Hori-
zontal scalability (scaling out) refers to adding more resources to logical units, 
such as adding another server to a cluster of servers. Vertical scalability (scaling 
up) refers to adding more resources to a physical unit, such as adding more mem-
ory to a single computer. The problem that arises with either type of scaling is 
how to effectively utilize the additional resources. Being effective means that the 
additional resources result in a measurable improvement of some system quality, 
did not require undue effort to add, and did not disrupt operations. In cloud en-
vironments, horizontal scalability is called elasticity. Elasticity is a property that 
enables a customer to add or remove virtual machines from the resource pool (see 
Chapter 26 for further discussion of such environments). These virtual machines 
are hosted on a large collection of upwards of 10,000 physical machines that are 
managed by the cloud provider. Scalability scenarios will deal with the impact of 
adding or removing resources, and the measures will reflect associated availabil-
ity and the load assigned to existing and new resources. 
Deployability
Deployability is concerned with how an executable arrives at a host platform and 
how it is subsequently invoked. Some of the issues involved in deploying soft-
ware are: How does it arrive at its host (push, where updates are sent to users un-
bidden, or pull, where users must explicitly request updates)? How is it integrated 
into an existing system? Can this be done while the existing system is executing? 
Mobile systems have their own problems in terms of how they are updated, be-
cause of concerns about bandwidth. Deployment scenarios will deal with the type 
of update (push or pull), the form of the update (medium, such as DVD or Inter-
net download, and packaging, such as executable, app, or plug-in), the resulting 
integration into an existing system, the efficiency of executing the process, and 
the associated risk.
Mobility
Mobility deals with the problems of movement and affordances of a platform 
(e.g., size, type of display, type of input devices, availability and volume of 
bandwidth, and battery life). Issues in mobility include battery management, 
reconnecting after a period of disconnection, and the number of different user 
interfaces necessary to support multiple platforms. Scenarios will deal with spec-
ifying the desired effects of mobility or the various affordances. Scenarios may 
also deal with variability, where the same software is deployed on multiple (per-
haps radically different) platforms.
