16.3  Gathering ASRs by Understanding the Business Goals
297
Business Goals
Quality Attributes
Architecture
Nonarchitectural Solutions
Figure 16.1  Some business goals may lead to quality attribute requirements 
(which lead to architectures), or lead directly to architectural decisions, or lead to 
nonarchitectural solutions.
3.	
No influence at all. Not all business goals lead to quality attributes. For 
example, a business goal to “reduce cost” may be realized by lowering the 
facility’s thermostats in the winter or reducing employees’ salaries or pensions. 
Figure 16.1 illustrates the major points just described. In the figure, the ar-
rows mean “leads to.” The solid arrows are the ones highlighting relationships of 
most interest to architects.
Architects often become aware of an organization’s business and business 
goals via osmosis—working, listening, talking, and soaking up the goals that are 
at work in an organization. Osmosis is not without its benefits, but more system-
atic ways are possible. We describe one such way in the sidebar “A Method for 
Capturing Business Goals.”
A Categorization of Business Goals
Business goals are worth capturing explicitly. This is because they often imply 
ASRs that would otherwise go undetected until it is too late or too expensive to 
address them. Capturing business goals is well served by having a set of candi-
date business goals handy to use as conversation starters. If you know that many 
businesses want to gain market share, for instance, you can use that to engage 
the right stakeholders in your organization to ask, “What are our ambitions about 
market share for this product, and how could the architecture contribute to meet-
ing them?”
Our research in business goals has led us to adopt the categories shown in 
Table 16.2. These categories can be used as an aid to brainstorming and elici-
tation. By employing the list of categories, and asking the stakeholders about 
possible business goals in each category, some assurance of coverage is gained. 
