9.2  Tactics for Security
153
a web-based link. Encryption can be symmetric (both parties use the same 
key) or asymmetric (public and private keys).
■
■Separate entities. Separating different entities within the system can be 
done through physical separation on different servers that are attached 
to different networks; the use of virtual machines (see Chapter 26 for 
a discussion of virtual machines); or an “air gap,” that is, by having no 
connection between different portions of a system. Finally, sensitive 
data is frequently separated from nonsensitive data to reduce the attack 
possibilities from those who have access to nonsensitive data.
■
■Change default settings. Many systems have default settings assigned 
when the system is delivered. Forcing the user to change those settings will 
prevent attackers from gaining access to the system through settings that 
are, generally, publicly available.
React to Attacks
Several tactics are intended to respond to a potential attack: 
■
■Revoke access. If the system or a system administrator believes that 
an attack is underway, then access can be severely limited to sensitive 
resources, even for normally legitimate users and uses. For example, if your 
desktop has been compromised by a virus, your access to certain resources 
may be limited until the virus is removed from your system.
■
■Lock computer. Repeated failed login attempts may indicate a potential 
attack. Many systems limit access from a particular computer if there 
are repeated failed attempts to access an account from that computer. 
Legitimate users may make mistakes in attempting to log in. Therefore, the 
limited access may only be for a certain time period.
■
■Inform actors. Ongoing attacks may require action by operators, other 
personnel, or cooperating systems. Such personnel or systems—the set of 
relevant actors—must be notified when the system has detected an attack.
Recover from Attacks
Once a system has detected and attempted to resist an attack, it needs to recover. 
Part of recovery is restoration of services. For example, additional servers or net-
work connections may be kept in reserve for such a purpose. Since a successful 
attack can be considered a kind of failure, the set of availability tactics (from 
Chapter 5) that deal with recovering from a failure can be brought to bear for this 
aspect of security as well. 
In addition to the availability tactics that permit restoration of services, we 
need to maintain an audit trail. We audit—that is, keep a record of user and sys-
tem actions and their effects—to help trace the actions of, and to identify, an at-
tacker. We may analyze audit trails to attempt to prosecute attackers, or to create 
better defenses in the future.
The set of security tactics is shown in Figure 9.3.
