82 
Part Two  Quality Attributes	
5—Availability
Planning for Failure
When designing a high-availability or safety-critical system, it’s tempting to 
say that failure is not an option. It’s a catchy phrase, but it’s a lousy design 
philosophy. In fact, failure is not only an option, it’s almost inevitable. What 
will make your system safe and available is planning for the occurrence of 
failure or (more likely) failures, and handling them with aplomb. The first 
step is to understand what kinds of failures your system is prone to, and 
what the consequences of each will be. Here are three well-known tech-
niques for getting a handle on this.
Hazard analysis
Hazard analysis is a technique that attempts to catalog the hazards that 
can occur during the operation of a system. It categorizes each hazard 
according to its severity. For example, the DO-178B standard used in the 
aeronautics industry defines these failure condition levels in terms of their 
effects on the aircraft, crew, and passengers:
■
■
Catastrophic. This kind of failure may cause a crash. This failure represents 
the loss of critical function required to safely fly and land aircraft.
■
■
Hazardous. This kind of failure has a large negative impact on safety or 
performance, or reduces the ability of the crew to operate the aircraft due 
to physical distress or a higher workload, or causes serious or fatal injuries 
among the passengers. 
■
■
Major. This kind of failure is significant, but has a lesser impact than a 
Hazardous failure (for example, leads to passenger discomfort rather than 
injuries) or significantly increases crew workload to the point where safety 
is affected.
■
■
Minor. This kind of failure is noticeable, but has a lesser impact than a Ma-
jor failure (for example, causing passenger inconvenience or a routine flight 
plan change).
■
■
No effect. This kind of failure has no impact on safety, aircraft operation, or 
crew workload.
Other domains have their own categories and definitions. Hazard anal-
ysis also assesses the probability of each hazard occurring. Hazards for 
which the product of cost and probability exceed some threshold are then 
made the subject of mitigation activities.
Fault tree analysis
Fault tree analysis is an analytical technique that specifies a state of the 
system that negatively impacts safety or reliability, and then analyzes the 
system’s context and operation to find all the ways that the undesired state 
could occur. The technique uses a graphic construct (the fault tree) that 
helps identify all sequential and parallel sequences of contributing faults 
that will result in the occurrence of the undesired state, which is listed at 
the top of the tree (the “top event”). The contributing faults might be hard-
ware failures, human errors, software errors, or any other pertinent events 
that can lead to the undesired state. 
