16.1  Gathering ASRs from Requirements Documents
293
document that describes teaming assumptions, for example. In an acquisition 
context, the requirements document represents the interests of the acquirer, not 
that of the developer. But as we saw in Chapter 3, stakeholders, the technical en-
vironment, and the organization itself all play a role in influencing architectures. 
Sniffing Out ASRs from a Requirements Document
Although requirements documents won’t tell an architect the whole story, they 
are an important source of ASRs. Of course, ASRs aren’t going to be conve-
niently labeled as such; the architect is going to have to perform a bit of excava-
tion and archaeology to ferret them out.
Chapter 4 categorizes the design decisions that architects have to make. Ta-
ble 16.1 summarizes each category of architectural design decision, and it gives 
a list of requirements to look for that might affect that kind of decision. If a re-
quirement affects the making of a critical architectural design decision, it is by 
definition an ASR.
Table 16.1  Early Design Decisions and Requirements That Can Affect Them
Design Decision Category
Look for Requirements Addressing . . .
Allocation of Responsibilities
Planned evolution of responsibilities, user roles, 
system modes, major processing steps, commercial 
packages
Coordination Model
Properties of the coordination (timeliness, currency, 
completeness, correctness, and consistency)
Names of external elements, protocols, sensors 
or actuators (devices), middleware, network 
configurations (including their security properties)
Evolution requirements on the list above 
Data Model
Processing steps, information flows, major domain 
entities, access rights, persistence, evolution 
requirements
Management of Resources
Time, concurrency, memory footprint, scheduling, 
multiple users, multiple activities, devices, energy 
usage, soft resources (buffers, queues, etc.) 
Scalability requirements on the list above
Mapping among Architectural 
Elements
Plans for teaming, processors, families of 
processors, evolution of processors, network 
configurations
Binding Time Decisions
Extension of or flexibility of functionality, regional 
distinctions, language distinctions, portability, 
calibrations, configurations
Choice of Technology
Named technologies, changes to technologies 
(planned and unplanned)
