40 
Part One  Introduction	
3—The Many Contexts of Software Architecture
■
■Professional. What is the role of a software architect in an organization or a 
development project? 
These contexts all play out throughout the book, but this chapter introduces each 
one. Although the contexts are unchanging, the specifics for your system may 
change over time. One challenge for the architect is to envision what in their 
context might change and to adopt mechanisms to protect the system and its de-
velopment if the envisioned changes come to pass.
3.1  Architecture in a Technical Context
Architectures inhibit or enable the achievement of quality attributes, and one use 
of an architecture is to support reasoning about the consequences of change in the 
particular quality attributes important for a system at its inception.
Architectures Inhibit or Enable the 
Achievement of Quality Attributes
Chapter 2 listed thirteen reasons why software architecture is important and mer-
its study. Several of those reasons deal with exigencies that go beyond the bounds 
of a particular development project (such as communication among stakehold-
ers, many of whom may reside outside the project’s organization). Others deal 
with nontechnical aspects of a project (such as the architecture’s influence on a 
project’s team structure, or its contribution to accurate budget and schedule esti-
mation). The first three reasons in that List of Thirteen deal specifically with an 
architecture’s technical impact on every system that uses it:
1.	
An architecture will inhibit or enable the achievement of a system’s quality 
attributes.
2.	
You can predict many aspects of a system’s qualities by studying its 
architecture.
3.	
An architecture makes it easier for you to reason about and manage change.
These are all about the architecture’s effect on a system’s quality attributes, 
although the first one states it the most explicitly. While all of the reasons enu-
merated in Chapter  2 are valid statements of the contribution of architecture, 
probably the most important reason that it warrants attention is its critical effect 
on quality attributes.
This is such a critical point that, with your indulgence, we’ll add a few more 
points to the bullet list that we gave in Section 2.1. Remember? The one that 
started like this:
