64 
Part Two  Quality Attributes	
4—Understanding Quality Attributes
■
■How to achieve those qualities 
■
■How to determine the design decisions we might make with respect to those 
qualities 
This chapter provides the context for the discussion of specific quality attributes 
in Chapters 5–11.
4.1  Architecture and Requirements
Requirements for a system come in a variety of forms: textual requirements, 
mockups, existing systems, use cases, user stories, and more. Chapter 16 dis-
cusses the concept of an architecturally significant requirement, the role such re-
quirements play in architecture, and how to identify them. No matter the source, 
all requirements encompass the following categories: 
1.	
Functional requirements. These requirements state what the system must 
do, and how it must behave or react to runtime stimuli. 
2.	
Quality attribute requirements. These requirements are qualifications of 
the functional requirements or of the overall product. A qualification of a 
functional requirement is an item such as how fast the function must be 
performed, or how resilient it must be to erroneous input. A qualification 
of the overall product is an item such as the time to deploy the product or a 
limitation on operational costs.
3.	
Constraints. A constraint is a design decision with zero degrees of freedom. 
That is, it’s a design decision that’s already been made. Examples include 
the requirement to use a certain programming language or to reuse a certain 
existing module, or a management fiat to make your system service ori-
ented. These choices are arguably in the purview of the architect, but ex-
ternal factors (such as not being able to train the staff in a new language, or 
having a business agreement with a software supplier, or pushing business 
goals of service interoperability) have led those in power to dictate these 
design outcomes.
What is the “response” of architecture to each of these kinds of requirements?
1.	
Functional requirements are satisfied by assigning an appropriate sequence 
of responsibilities throughout the design. As we will see later in this chap-
ter, assigning responsibilities to architectural elements is a fundamental 
architectural design decision.
2.	
Quality attribute requirements are satisfied by the various structures de-
signed into the architecture, and the behaviors and interactions of the ele-
ments that populate those structures. Chapter 17 will show this approach in 
more detail. 
