182 
Part Two  Quality Attributes	
11—Usability
Table 11.2  Checklist to Support the Design and Analysis Process for Usability, 
continued
Category
Checklist
Data Model
Determine the major data abstractions that are involved 
with user-perceivable behavior. Ensure these major data 
abstractions, their operations, and their properties have 
been designed to assist the user in achieving the task at 
hand, adapting and configuring the system, recovering from 
user and system errors, learning how to use the system, and 
increasing satisfaction and user confidence.
For example, the data abstractions should be designed 
to support undo and cancel operations: the transaction 
granularity should not be so great that canceling or undoing 
an operation takes an excessively long time.
Mapping among 
Architectural  
Elements
Determine what mapping among architectural elements is 
visible to the end user (for example, the extent to which the 
end user is aware of which services are local and which 
are remote). For those that are visible, determine how this 
affects the ways in which, or the ease with which, the user 
will learn how to use the system, achieve the task at hand, 
adapt and configure the system, recover from user and 
system errors, and increase confidence and satisfaction.
Resource  
Management
Determine how the user can adapt and configure the 
system’s use of resources. Ensure that resource limitations 
under all user-controlled configurations will not make users 
less likely to achieve their tasks. For example, attempt to 
avoid configurations that would result in excessively long 
response times. Ensure that the level of resources will not 
affect the users’ ability to learn how to use the system, or 
decrease their level of confidence and satisfaction with the 
system.
Binding Time
Determine which binding time decisions should be under 
user control and ensure that users can make decisions 
that aid in usability. For example, if the user can choose, at 
runtime, the system’s configuration, or its communication 
protocols, or its functionality via plug-ins, you need to ensure 
that such choices do not adversely affect the user’s ability to 
learn system features, use the system efficiently, minimize 
the impact of errors, further adapt and configure the system, 
or increase confidence and satisfaction.
Choice of Technology
Ensure the chosen technologies help to achieve the usability 
scenarios that apply to your system. For example, do these 
technologies aid in the creation of online help, the production 
of training materials, and the collection of user feedback? 
How usable are any of your chosen technologies? Ensure 
the chosen technologies do not adversely affect the usability 
of the system (in terms of learning system features, using the 
system efficiently, minimizing the impact of errors, adapting/
configuring the system, and increasing confidence and 
satisfaction).
