56 
Part One  Introduction	
3—The Many Contexts of Software Architecture
3.6  How Is Architecture Influenced?
For decades, software designers have been taught to build systems based on the 
software’s technical requirements. In the older Waterfall model, the requirements 
document is “tossed over the wall” into the designer’s cubicle, and the designer 
must come forth with a satisfactory design. Requirements beget design, which 
begets system. In an iterative or Agile approach to development, an increment of 
requirements begets an increment of design, and so forth.
This vision of software development is short-sighted. In any development 
effort, the requirements make explicit some—but only some—of the desired 
properties of the final system. Not all requirements are focused directly on de-
sired system properties; some requirements might mandate a development pro-
cess or the use of a particular tool. Furthermore, the requirements specification 
only begins to tell the story. Failure to satisfy other constraints may render the 
system just as problematic as if it functioned poorly. 
What do you suppose would happen if two different architects, working in two 
different organizations, were given the same requirements specification for a sys-
tem? Do you think they would produce the same architecture or different ones? 
The answer is that they would very likely produce different ones, which im-
mediately belies the notion that requirements determine architecture. Other fac-
tors are at work. 
A software architecture is a result of business and social influences, as well 
as technical ones. The existence of an architecture in turn affects the technical, 
business, and social environments that subsequently influence future architec-
tures. In particular, each of the contexts for architecture that we just covered—
technical, project, business, and professional—plays a role in influencing an ar-
chitect and the architecture, as shown in Figure 3.4. 
Architect’s Influences
Architect
Business
Technical
Project
Professional
Stakeholders
Architecture
System
Figure 3.4  Influences on the architect
