3.4  Architecture in a Professional Context
51
Finally, the organizational structure can shape the software architecture, and 
vice versa. Organizations are often organized around technology and application 
concepts: a database group, a networking group, a business rules team, a user-in-
terface group. So the explicit identification of a distinct subsystem in the archi-
tecture will frequently lead to the creation of a group with the name of the sub-
system. Furthermore, if the user-interface team frequently needs to communicate 
with the business rules team, these teams will need to either be co-located or they 
will need some regular means of communicating and coordinating. 
3.4  Architecture in a Professional Context
What do architects do? How do you become an architect? In this section we talk 
about the many facets of being an architect that go beyond what you learned in a 
programming or software engineering course.
You probably know by now that architects need more than just technical 
skills. Architects need to explain to one stakeholder or another the chosen prior-
ities of different properties, and why particular stakeholders are not having all of 
their expectations fulfilled. To be an effective architect, then, you will need diplo-
matic, negotiation, and communication skills.
You will perform many activities beyond directly producing an architecture. 
These activities, which we call duties, form the backbone of individual architec-
ture competence. We surveyed the broad body of information aimed at architects 
(such as websites, courses, books, and position descriptions for architects), as 
well as practicing architects, and duties are but one aspect. Writers about archi-
tects also speak of skills and knowledge. For example, architects need the ability 
to communicate ideas clearly and need to have up-to-date knowledge about (for 
example) patterns, or database platforms, or web services standards. 
Duties, skills, and knowledge form a triad on which architecture compe-
tence rests. You will need to be involved in supporting management and deal-
ing with customers. You will need to manage a diverse workload and be able to 
switch contexts frequently. You will need to know business considerations. You 
will need to be a leader in the eyes of developers and management. In Chapter 24 
we examine at length the architectural competence of organizations and people.
Architects’ Background and Experience
We are all products of our experiences, architects included. If you have had good 
results using a particular architectural approach, such as three-tier client-server 
or publish-subscribe, chances are that you will try that same approach on a new 
development effort. Conversely, if your experience with an approach was disas-
trous, you may be reluctant to try it again. 
