296 
Part Three  Architecture in the Life Cycle	
16—Architecture and Requirements
combination of scenarios. The votes are counted, and the scenarios are 
prioritized accordingly.
Step 8: Scenario Refinement. After the prioritization, the top scenar-
ios are refined and elaborated. Facilitators help the stakeholders put the 
scenarios in the six-part scenario form of source-stimulus-artifact-environ-
ment-response-response measure that we described in Chapter 4. As the 
scenarios are refined, issues surrounding their satisfaction will emerge. 
These are also recorded. Step 8 lasts as long as time and resources allow.
16.3  Gathering ASRs by Understanding 
the Business Goals
Business goals are the raison d’être for building a system. No organization builds 
a system without a reason; rather, the organization’s leaders want to further the 
mission and ambitions of their organization and themselves. Common business 
goals include making a profit, of course, but most organizations have many more 
concerns than simply profit, and in other organizations (e.g., nonprofits, charities, 
governments), profit is the farthest thing from anyone’s mind. 
Business goals are of interest to architects because they often are the precursor 
or progenitor of requirements that may or may not be captured in a requirements 
specification but whose achievement (or lack) signals a successful (or less than suc-
cessful) architectural design. Business goals frequently lead directly to ASRs.
There are three possible relationships between business goals and an 
architecture:
1.	
Business goals often lead to quality attribute requirements. Or to put it 
another way, every quality attribute requirement—such as user-visible 
response time or platform flexibility or ironclad security or any of a 
dozen other needs—should originate from some higher purpose that can 
be described in terms of added value. If we ask, for example, “Why do 
you want this system to have a really fast response time?”, we might hear 
that this will differentiate the product from its competition and let the 
developing organization capture market share; or that this will make the 
soldier a more effective warfighter, which is the mission of the acquiring 
organization; or other reasons having to do with the satisfaction of some 
business goal. 
2.	
Business goals may directly affect the architecture without precipitating 
a quality attribute requirement at all. In Chapter 3 we told the story of 
the architect who designed a system without a database until the manager 
informed him that the database team needed work. The architecture was 
importantly affected without any relevant quality attribute requirement.
