4.6  Guiding Quality Design Decisions
75
some point you start paging/swapping intensively and your performance 
suddenly crashes to a halt.
Mapping among Architectural Elements 
An architecture must provide two types of mappings. First, there is mapping 
between elements in different types of architecture structures—for example, 
mapping from units of development (modules) to units of execution (threads or 
processes). Next, there is mapping between software elements and environment 
elements—for example, mapping from processes to the specific CPUs where 
these processes will execute.
Useful mappings include these:
■
■The mapping of modules and runtime elements to each other—that is, the 
runtime elements that are created from each module; the modules that con-
tain the code for each runtime element.
■
■The assignment of runtime elements to processors.
■
■The assignment of items in the data model to data stores.
■
■The mapping of modules and runtime elements to units of delivery.
Binding Time Decisions
Binding time decisions introduce allowable ranges of variation. This variation 
can be bound at different times in the software life cycle by different entities—
from design time by a developer to runtime by an end user. A binding time de-
cision establishes the scope, the point in the life cycle, and the mechanism for 
achieving the variation. 
The decisions in the other six categories have an associated binding time 
decision. Examples of such binding time decisions include the following:
■
■For allocation of responsibilities, you can have build-time selection of mod-
ules via a parameterized makefile. 
■
■For choice of coordination model, you can design runtime negotiation of 
protocols.
■
■For resource management, you can design a system to accept new periph-
eral devices plugged in at runtime, after which the system recognizes them 
and downloads and installs the right drivers automatically.
■
■For choice of technology, you can build an app store for a smartphone that 
automatically downloads the version of the app appropriate for the phone of 
the customer buying the app.
When making binding time decisions, you should consider the costs to im-
plement the decision and the costs to make a modification after you have im-
plemented the decision. For example, if you are considering changing platforms 
