8 
Part One  Introduction	
1—What Is Software Architecture?
of functionality and, consequently, the constraints placed on the software 
architecture.
Enterprise architecture
Enterprise architecture is a description of the structure and behavior of an 
organization’s processes, information flow, personnel, and organizational 
subunits, aligned with the organization’s core goals and strategic direction. 
An enterprise architecture need not include information systems—clearly 
organizations had architectures that fit the preceding definition prior to the 
advent of computers—but these days, enterprise architectures for all but the 
smallest businesses are unthinkable without information system support. 
Thus, a modern enterprise architecture is concerned with how an enter-
prise’s software systems support the business processes and goals of the 
enterprise. Typically included in this set of concerns is a process for deciding 
which systems with which functionality should be supported by an enterprise.
An enterprise architecture will specify the data model that various sys-
tems use to interact, for example. It will specify rules for how the enter-
prise’s systems interact with external systems.
Software is only one concern of enterprise architecture. Two other com-
mon concerns addressed by enterprise architecture are how the software 
is used by humans to perform business processes, and the standards that 
determine the computational environment.
Sometimes the software infrastructure that supports communication 
among systems and with the external world is considered a portion of the 
enterprise architecture; other times, this infrastructure is considered one 
of the systems within an enterprise. (In either case, the architecture of that 
infrastructure is a software architecture!) These two views will result in dif-
ferent management structures and spheres of influence for the individuals 
concerned with the infrastructure.
The system and the enterprise provide environments for, and constraints 
on, the software architecture. The software architecture must live within 
the system and enterprise, and increasingly it is the focus for achieving the 
organization’s business goals. But all three forms of architecture share im-
portant commonalities: They are concerned with major elements taken as 
abstractions, the relationships among the elements, and how the elements 
together meet the behavioral and quality goals of the thing being built.
Are these in scope for this book? Yes! (Well, no.)
System and enterprise architectures share a great deal with software ar-
chitectures. All can be designed, evaluated, and documented; all answer 
to requirements; all are intended to satisfy stakeholders; all consist of 
structures, which in turn consist of elements and relationships; all have a 
repertoire of patterns and styles at their respective architects’ disposal; 
and the list goes on. So to the extent that these architectures share com-
monalities with software architecture, they are in the scope of this book. 
But like all technical disciplines, each has its own specialized vocabulary 
and techniques, and we won’t cover those. Copious other sources do.
