68 
Part Two  Quality Attributes	
4—Understanding Quality Attributes
4.4  Specifying Quality Attribute Requirements
A quality attribute requirement should be unambiguous and testable. We use a 
common form to specify all quality attribute requirements. This has the advantage 
of emphasizing the commonalities among all quality attributes. It has the disad-
vantage of occasionally being a force-fit for some aspects of quality attributes.
Our common form for quality attribute expression has these parts:
■
■Stimulus. We use the term “stimulus” to describe an event arriving at the 
system. The stimulus can be an event to the performance community, a 
user operation to the usability community, or an attack to the security 
community. We use the same term to describe a motivating action for de-
velopmental qualities. Thus, a stimulus for modifiability is a request for 
a modification; a stimulus for testability is the completion of a phase of 
development.
■
■Stimulus source. A stimulus must have a source—it must come from some-
where. The source of the stimulus may affect how it is treated by the sys-
tem. A request from a trusted user will not undergo the same scrutiny as a 
request by an untrusted user.
■
■Response. How the system should respond to the stimulus must also be 
specified. The response consists of the responsibilities that the system 
(for runtime qualities) or the developers (for development-time qualities) 
should perform in response to the stimulus. For example, in a performance 
scenario, an event arrives (the stimulus) and the system should process 
that event and generate a response. In a modifiability scenario, a request 
for a modification arrives (the stimulus) and the developers should imple-
ment the modification—without side effects—and then test and deploy the 
modification.
■
■Response measure. Determining whether a response is satisfactory—
whether the requirement is satisfied—is enabled by providing a response 
measure. For performance this could be a measure of latency or throughput; 
for modifiability it could be the labor or wall clock time required to make, 
test, and deploy the modification.
These four characteristics of a scenario are the heart of our quality attribute 
specifications. But there are two more characteristics that are important: environ-
ment and artifact.
■
■Environment. The environment of a requirement is the set of circumstances 
in which the scenario takes place. The environment acts as a qualifier on 
the stimulus. For example, a request for a modification that arrives after 
the code has been frozen for a release may be treated differently than one 
that arrives before the freeze. A failure that is the fifth successive failure 
