156 
Part Two  Quality Attributes	
9—Security
Table 9.2  Checklist to Support the Design and Analysis Process for Security, 
continued
Category
Checklist
Binding Time
Determine cases where an instance of a late-bound component 
may be untrusted. For such cases ensure that late-bound 
components can be qualified; that is, if ownership certificates 
for late-bound components are required, there are appropriate 
mechanisms to manage and validate them; that access to 
late-bound data and services can be managed; that access by 
late-bound components to data and services can be blocked; that 
mechanisms to record the access, modification, and attempts to 
access data or services by late-bound components are in place; 
and that system data is encrypted where the keys are intentionally 
withheld for late-bound components
Choice of 
Technology
Determine what technologies are available to help user 
authentication, data access rights, resource protection, and data 
encryption.
Ensure that your chosen technologies support the tactics relevant 
for your security needs.
9.4  Summary
Attacks against a system can be characterized as attacks against the confidential-
ity, integrity, or availability of a system or its data. Confidentiality means keeping 
data away from those who should not have access while granting access to those 
who should. Integrity means that there are no unauthorized modifications to or 
deletion of data, and availability means that the system is accessible to those who 
are entitled to use it.
The emphasis of distinguishing various classes of actors in the characteri-
zation leads to many of the tactics used to achieve security. Identifying, authen-
ticating, and authorizing actors are tactics intended to determine which users or 
systems are entitled to what kind of access to a system.
An assumption is made that no security tactic is foolproof and that systems 
will be compromised. Hence, tactics exist to detect an attack, limit the spread of 
any attack, and to react and recover from an attack.
Recovering from an attack involves many of the same tactics as availability 
and, in general, involves returning the system to a consistent state prior to any attack.
