11.2  Tactics for Usability
179
There is a connection between the achievement of usability and modifiabil-
ity. The user interface design process consists of generating and then testing a 
user interface design. Deficiencies in the design are corrected and the process 
repeats. If the user interface has already been constructed as a portion of the sys-
tem, then the system must be modified to reflect the latest design. Hence the con-
nection with modifiability. This connection has resulted in standard patterns to 
support user interface design (see sidebar).
Support User Initiative
Once a system is executing, usability is enhanced by giving the user feed-
back as to what the system is doing and by allowing the user to make appro-
priate responses. For example, the tactics described next—cancel, undo, pause/ 
resume, and aggregate—support the user in either correcting errors or being more 
efficient.
The architect designs a response for user initiative by enumerating and al-
locating the responsibilities of the system to respond to the user command. Here 
are some common examples of user initiative: 
■
■Cancel. When the user issues a cancel command, the system must be 
listening for it (thus, there is the responsibility to have a constant listener 
that is not blocked by the actions of whatever is being canceled); the 
command being canceled must be terminated; any resources being 
used by the canceled command must be freed; and components that are 
collaborating with the canceled command must be informed so that they 
can also take appropriate action.
■
■Undo. To support the ability to undo, the system must maintain a sufficient 
amount of information about system state so that an earlier state may be 
restored, at the user’s request. Such a record may be in the form of state 
“snapshots”—for example, checkpoints—or as a set of reversible oper-
ations. Not all operations can be easily reversed: for example, changing 
all occurrences of the letter “a” to the letter “b” in a document cannot be 
reversed by changing all instances of “b” to “a”, because some of those in-
stances of “b” may have existed prior to the original change. In such a case 
the system must maintain a more elaborate record of the change. Of course, 
some operations, such as ringing a bell, cannot be undone. 
■
■Pause/resume. When a user has initiated a long-running operation—say, 
downloading a large file or set of files from a server—it is often useful to 
provide the ability to pause and resume the operation. Effectively pausing a 
long-running operation requires the ability to temporarily free resources so 
that they may be reallocated to other tasks. 
