128 
Part Two  Quality Attributes	
7—Modifiability
7.4  Summary
Modifiability deals with change and the cost in time or money of making a 
change, including the extent to which this modification affects other functions or 
quality attributes. 
Changes can be made by developers, installers, or end users, and these 
changes need to be prepared for. There is a cost of preparing for change as well 
as a cost of making a change. The modifiability tactics are designed to prepare for 
subsequent changes.
Tactics to reduce the cost of making a change include making modules 
smaller, increasing cohesion, and reducing coupling. Deferring binding will also 
reduce the cost of making a change.
Reducing coupling is a standard category of tactics that includes encapsulat-
ing, using an intermediary, restricting dependencies, co-locating related responsi-
bilities, refactoring, and abstracting common services.
Increasing cohesion is another standard tactic that involves separating re-
sponsibilities that do not serve the same purpose.
Defer binding is a category of tactics that affect build time, load time, ini-
tialization time, or runtime.
7.5  For Further Reading
Serious students of software engineering should read two early papers about 
designing for modifiability. The first is Edsger Dijkstra’s 1968 paper about the 
T.H.E. operating system [Dijkstra 68], which is the first paper that talks about de-
signing systems to be layered, and the modifiability benefits it brings. The second 
is David Parnas’s 1972 paper that introduced the concept of information hiding 
[Parnas 72]. Parnas prescribed defining modules not by their functionality but by 
their ability to internalize the effects of changes.
The tactics that we have presented in this chapter are a variant on those in-
troduced by [Bachmann 07].
Additional tactics for modifiability within the avionics domain can be found 
in [EOSAN 07], published by the European Organization for the Safety of Air 
Navigation. 
7.6  Discussion Questions
1.	
Modifiability comes in many flavors and is known by many names. Find 
one of the IEEE or ISO standards dealing with quality attributes and 
