5. Service locators
pendencies, and their dependencies, and so on, gets composed. In our exam-
ple the controller is the Entry point of the application:
The entry point is the user code that the framework calls first.
Seemann suggests that at or near the entry point of the application, it seems
as if we’re using the container as a service locator, but in fact, we use it as a
composition root, which is a different role. We can therefore be more spe-
cific and say that not all calls to resolve(), Container::get(), etc. should be
forbidden. As long as the container plays the role of composition root, we
can use it near the entry point of our application:
A Composition Root is located at, or near, the entry point. An entry
point is where user code is first executed by a framework.10
In practice this means that inside a controller it’s perfectly okay to retrieve
a service from the container. Once inside that service though, the use of the
service container is no longer allowed. If your framework offers the ability
to define controllers as services too, then you can even move the composition
root one level up. The framework would then ask the container to instantiate
your controller, and all of its dependencies will be injected as constructor
arguments. Note that this last step isn’t required. The big win is that we’re
not using a service locator anywhere in our code other than near the entry
points.
5.10. Summary
In this chapter we started with a service that used globally available helper
functions to resolve dependencies, configuration values, and contextual in-
formation. We refactored the code to get its dependencies and configuration
values injected as constructor argument. We also made sure that any rele-
vant contextual information was provided as method arguments. Changing
the structure of the service made it a “pure” service; its behavior is fully de-
termined by its own implementation and the behavior of the constructor and
method arguments. This makes the service a much better candidate for unit
10 https://advwebapparch.com/composition-root-location
130
