14. A testing strategy for decoupled applications
For web applications it makes sense to use something like Panther9. The dif-
ference between Panther and the standard Symfony WebTestCase that we saw
in Section 14.4 is that Panther talks to the web server itself instead of the
framework’s entry point.
Because we already have so many tests for different parts of our application,
we shouldn’t test every bit of functionality once more using an end-to-end
test. We only want to increase our confidence a little bit by showing that
the parts work well together. Most of the wiring issues can be discovered
by running only a few important scenarios as end-to-end tests. It’ll be smart
to only write a few end-to-end tests because they tend to be slow and unsta-
ble. They break for many unrelated reasons, and those reasons are often not
programming or configuration mistakes.
14.7. Development workflow
With all these different types of tests, the question is: where to start?
There are different ways to approach the development of a feature. If you
don’t create decoupled applications, a common starting point is to set up the
routing, the controller, the templates. Then perhaps a model and a database
migration for it. Maybe then some forms and form validation. All these
things are framework-specific so if you’d like to create decoupled applica-
tions the workflow will be quite different.
We have an entire catalog of design patterns that we can use to build our
decoupled applications with. They could be used as building blocks to build
an application from scratch. For instance, we could start with designing our
Order entity, including some value objects, then add a repository for it, then
write the application service. But the risk of starting with the smaller el-
ements and working your way up is that in the end it may turn out that
you chose the wrong building blocks, or designed them in the wrong way.
You may discover this yourself, or you may get some feedback from another
stakeholder who isn’t happy with the feature you’ve built.
9 https://advwebapparch.com/panther
353
