5. Service locators
5.9. The Composition root is near the entry point
In the initial version of SendIpConfirmationEmail we used resolve() to let
the service container instantiate the Mailer service for us. Step by step we
were able to transform all those dynamically resolved dependencies and con-
figuration values into constructor arguments. But we still rely on the service
container to resolve all those things for us, and inject them as constructor
arguments. The difference is that in the beginning we used the service con-
tainer to locate services and configuration values for us, whereas now we rely
on the container to provide these things to us. The SendIpConfirmationEmail
class no longer has to worry about where its dependencies should come from,
or how to make them. It only declares a number of required constructor ar-
guments and their types. This is called inversion of control. A general rule is
to never use the service container as a locator, only as an injector, sometimes
called an inversion of control container.
But even if we use proper constructor injection everywhere, there has to be
at least a single call to the service container to instantiate the first service so
we can use it in a controller. However, we just said that a container should
never be used as a service locator.
To solve this paradox, we should turn to Mark Seemann, who wrote about
this specific problem9. He introduces the concept of an entry point, which is
the first user code that the framework calls. User code is code that is not part
of the framework, but written by you or your team members. Often such an
entry point is the controller which the framework decides to call based on the
current request URL. In this case the framework may be able to instantiate
the controller by doing something like new $controllerClass(). But once
inside the controller, where do you get your services from? You have to start
somewhere. Mark suggests that the container plays a very specific role in
these situations: the role of Composition root.
A Composition Root is a (preferably) unique location in an appli-
cation where modules are composed together.
It’s where the object graph, consisting of the first service including all its de-
9 https://advwebapparch.com/composition-root
129
