distributes the work and ensures that there is a higher level of buy-in. It also ensures
that information flows freely from the teams into the group, and as a result, the deci‐
sion making is much more sensible and informed.
Sometimes the group may make decisions that the architect disagrees with. At this
point, what is the architect to do? Having been in this position before, I can tell you
this is one of the most challenging situations to face. Often I take the approach that I
should go with the group decision. I take the view that I’ve done my best to convince
people, but ultimately I wasn’t convincing enough. The group is often much wiser
than the individual, and I’ve been proven wrong more than once! And imagine how
disempowering it can be for a group to have been given space to come up with a deci‐
sion and then ultimately be ignored. But sometimes I have overruled the group. But
why, and when? How do you draw the lines?
Think about teaching a child to ride a bike. You can’t ride it for them. You watch
them wobble, but if you step in every time it looks like they might fall off, then they’ll
never learn, and in any case they fall off far less than you think they will! But if you
see them about to veer into traffic or into a nearby duck pond, then you have to step
in. Of course, I’ve frequently been proven wrong in such situations—I’ve let the team
go off and do something that I felt was wrong, and what they did worked! Likewise,
as an architect, you need to have a firm grasp of when, figuratively, your team is
steering into a duck pond. You also need to be aware that even if you know you are
right and overrule the team, this can undermine your position and also make the
team feel that they don’t have a say. Sometimes the right thing is to go along with a
decision you don’t agree with. Knowing when to do this and when not to is tough but
sometimes vital.
Where things get interesting, as we’ll discuss shortly, is when an architect also has to
get involved in governance activities. This can cause some confusion about the role of
any cross-cutting architecture team. What happens when one team diverges from the
technical strategy? Is that OK? Perhaps it’s a sensible exception, but it might also
cause more fundamental issues. A short-term decision made in the name of expedi‐
ency might compromise bigger changes that are trying to be made. Imagine that the
architecture group is trying to help shift the organization away from the use of cen‐
tralized data due to the coupling and operational issues it causes, but one of the teams
decides to just throw some new data into a shared database, as it is under pressure to
deliver quickly. What happens then?
In my experience, this all comes down to good, clear communication and an under‐
standing of responsibilities. If I saw a product owner making decisions that I felt were
going to undermine some sort of cross-cutting activities I was working toward, I’d go
and have a chat with them. Perhaps the answer is that the short-term decision is right
(and arguably this ends up being some sort of technical debt that we have consciously
taken onboard). In other cases, perhaps the product owner is able to change what
Architecture in a Stream-Aligned Organization 
| 
541
