2 Alan MacCormack, Carliss Baldwin, and John Rusnak, “Exploring the Duality Between Product and Organi‐
zational Architectures: A Test of the Mirroring Hypothesis,” Research Policy 41, no. 8 (October 2012):
1309–24.
Conway’s Law
Our industry is young and seems to be constantly reinventing itself. And yet a few
key “laws” have stood the test of time. Moore’s law, for example, states that the den‐
sity of transistors on integrated circuits doubles every two years, and it has proved to
be uncannily accurate (although that trend has been slowing). One law that I have
found to be almost universally true, and to be far more useful in my day-to-day work,
is Conway’s law.
Melvin Conway’s paper “How Do Committees Invent?,” published in Datamation
magazine in April 1968, observed that:
Any organization that designs a system (defined more broadly here than just informa‐
tion systems) will inevitably produce a design whose structure is a copy of the organi‐
zation’s communication structure.
This statement is often quoted, in various forms, as Conway’s law. Eric S. Raymond
summarized this phenomenon in The New Hacker’s Dictionary (MIT Press) by stat‐
ing, “If you have four groups working on a compiler, you’ll get a 4-pass compiler.”
Conway’s law shows us that a loosely coupled organization results in a loosely cou‐
pled architecture (and vice versa), reinforcing the idea that hoping to gain the bene‐
fits of a loosely coupled microservice architecture will be problematic without also
considering the organization building the software.
Evidence
The story goes that when Melvin Conway submitted his paper on this topic to the
Harvard Business Review, the magazine rejected it, claiming he hadn’t proved his the‐
sis. I’ve seen his theory borne out in so many different situations that I’ve accepted it
as true. But you don’t have to take my word for it: since Conway’s original submis‐
sion, a lot of work has been done in this area. A number of studies have been carried
out to explore the interrelation of organizational structure and the systems they
create.
Loosely and tightly coupled organizations
In “Exploring the Duality Between Product and Organizational Architectures,”2 the
authors look at a number of different software systems, loosely categorized as being
created either by “loosely coupled organizations” or by “tightly coupled organiza‐
tions.” For tightly coupled organizations, think commercial product firms that are
Conway’s Law 
| 
493
