8 Kate Aubusson and Tim Biggs, “Major Telstra Mobile Outage Hits Nationwide, with Calls and Data Affec‐
ted,” Sydney Morning Herald, February 9, 2016, https://oreil.ly/4cBcy.
9 I wrote more about the Telstra incident at the time—“Telstra, Human Error and Blame Culture,” https://
oreil.ly/OXgUQ. When I wrote that blog post, I neglected to realize that the company I worked for had Telstra
as a client; my then-employer actually handled the situation extremely well, even though it did make for an
uncomfortable few hours when some of my comments got picked up by the national press.
implies there is a root cause. It’s surprising how often we want that root cause to be a
human.
A few years ago, back when I was working in Australia, Telstra, the main telco (and
previous monopoly) had a major outage that impacted both voice and telephony
services. This incident was especially problematic due to the scope and duration of
the outage. Australia has many very isolated rural communities, and outages like this
tend to be especially serious. Almost immediately after the outage, Telstra’s COO put
out a statement that made it clear they knew exactly what had caused the problem:8
“We took that node down, unfortunately the individual that was managing that issue
did not follow the correct procedure, and he reconnected the customers to the mal‐
functioning node, rather than transferring them to the nine other redundant nodes
that he should have transferred people to,” Ms. McKenzie told reporters on Tuesday
afternoon.
“We apologise right across our customer base. This is an embarrassing human error.”
So firstly, note that this statement came out hours after the outage. And yet Telstra
had already unpacked what must be a vastly complex system to know exactly what
was to blame—one person. Now, if it’s true that one person making a mistake can
really bring an entire telco to its knees, you’d think that would say more about the
telco than the individual. In addition, Telstra clearly signaled to its staff at the time
that it was very happy to point fingers and apportion blame.9
The problem with blaming people in the aftermath of incidents like this is that what
starts as a short-term passing of the buck ends up creating a culture of fear, where
people will be unwilling to come forward to tell you when things go wrong. As a
result, you will lose the opportunity to learn from failure, setting yourself up for the
same problems happening again. Creating an organization in which people have the
safety to admit when mistakes are made is essential in creating a learning culture, and
in turn can go a long way toward creating an organization that is able to create more
robust software, quite aside from the obvious benefits of creating a happier place to
work in.
Coming back to Telstra, with the cause of the blame clearly established in the in-
depth investigation that was carried out mere hours after the nationwide outage, we’d
clearly expect no subsequent outages, right? Unfortunately, Telstra suffered a string
416 
| 
Chapter 12: Resiliency
