by experts with a deep focus on this sort of thing. Having smart people do work for
you is often a good idea.
Now, in the case of our specific example with AdvertCorp, using middleware to man‐
age request-response communication with the downstream turnip system might not
actually have helped much. We would still not be getting responses back to our cus‐
tomers. The one potential benefit would be that we’d be relieving resource contention
on our own system, but this would just shift to an increasing number of pending
requests being held in the broker. Worse still, many of these requests asking for the
latest turnip prices might relate to user requests that are no longer valid.
An alternative could be to instead invert the interaction and use middleware to have
the turnip system broadcast the last turnip ads, and we could then consume them.
But if the downstream turnip system had a problem, we still wouldn’t be able to help
the customer looking for the best turnip prices.
So using middleware like message brokers to help offload some robustness concerns
can be useful, but not in every situation.
Idempotency
In idempotent operations, the outcome doesn’t change after the first application, even
if the operation is subsequently applied multiple times. If operations are idempotent,
we can repeat the call multiple times without adverse impact. This is very useful when
we want to replay messages that we aren’t sure have been processed, a common way
of recovering from error.
Let’s consider a simple call to add some points as a result of one of our customers
placing an order. We might make a call with the sort of payload shown in
Example 12-1.
Example 12-1. Crediting points to an account
<credit>
  <amount>100</amount>
  <forAccount>1234</account>
</credit>
If this call is received multiple times, we would add 100 points multiple times. As it
stands, therefore, this call is not idempotent. With a bit more information, though,
we allow the points bank to make this call idempotent, as shown in Example 12-2.
406 
| 
Chapter 12: Resiliency
