10 Which famously even Spotify doesn’t use anymore.
• Look the part.
• Put money in the till.
Autonomy works at the smaller scale too, and most modern companies I work with
are looking to create more autonomous teams within their organizations, often trying
to copy models from other organizations, such as Amazon’s two-pizza team model,
or the “Spotify model” that popularized the concept of guilds and chapters.10 I should
sound a note of caution here, of course—by all means, learn from what other organi‐
zations do, but understand that copying what someone else does and expecting the
same results, without actually understanding why the other organization does the
things it does, may not result in the outcome you want.
If done right, team autonomy can empower people, help them step up and grow, and
get the job done faster. When teams own microservices and have full control over
those microservices, they can have greater autonomy within a larger organization.
The concept of autonomy starts to shift our understanding of ownership in a micro‐
service architecture. Let’s explore this in more detail.
Strong Versus Collective Ownership
In “Defining ownership” on page 213, we discussed different types of ownership and
explored the implications of these styles of ownership in the context of making code
changes. As a brief recap, the two primary forms of code ownership we described are:
Strong ownership
A microservice is owned by a team, and that team decides what changes to make
to that microservice. If an external team wants to make changes, it either needs to
ask the owning team to make the change on its behalf or else might be required
to send a pull request—it would then be entirely up to the owning team to decide
under what circumstances the pull request model is accepted. A team may own
more than one microservice.
Collective ownership
Any team can change any microservice. Careful coordination is needed to ensure
that teams don’t get in each other’s way.
Let’s further explore the implications of these ownership models and how they can
help (or hinder) a drive toward increased team autonomy.
Strong Versus Collective Ownership 
| 
499
