CHAPTER 11
Security
I want to preface this chapter by saying that I do not consider myself to be an expert
in the space of application security. I aim simply to be a conscious incompetent—in
other words, I want to understand what I don’t know and be aware of my limits. Even
as I learn more about this space, I learn that there is still more to know. This isn’t to
say that educating yourself about topics like this is pointless—I feel that everything
I’ve learned about this space over the last ten years has made me a more effective
developer and architect.
In this chapter, I highlight those aspects of security that I consider worthwhile for a
general developer, architect, or operations person working on a microservice archi‐
tecture to understand. There is still a need to have the support of experts in the space
of application security—but even if you have access to such people, it’s still important
for you to have some grounding in these topics. In the same way that developers have
learned more about testing or data management, topics previously restricted to spe‐
cialists, having a general awareness of security topics can be vital in terms of building
security into our software from the beginning.
When comparing microservices to less distributed architectures, it turns out we are
presented with an interesting dichotomy. On the one hand, we now have more data
flowing over networks that previously would stay on a single machine, and we have
more complex infrastructure running our architecture—our surface area of attack is
much greater. On the other hand, microservices give us more opportunity to defend
in depth and limit the scope of access, potentially increasing the projection of our
system while also reducing the impact of an attack should it occur. This apparent
paradox—that microservices can make our systems both less secure and more
secure—is really just a delicate balancing act. My hope is that by the end of this chap‐
ter you’ll end up on the right side of this equation.
345
