14 Previously we would talk about two-factor authentication (2FA). MFA is the same concept but introduces the
idea that we often now allow our users to provide an additional factor from a variety of devices, such as a
secure token, a mobile authentication app, or perhaps biometrics. You can consider 2FA to be a subset of
MFA.
Human Authentication
We’re accustomed to humans authenticating themselves with the familiar username
and password combination. Increasingly, though, this is being used as part of a multi‐
factor authentication approach, where a user may need more than one piece of
knowledge (a factor) to authenticate themselves. Most commonly, this takes the form
of multifactor authentication (MFA),14 where more than one factor is needed. MFA
would most commonly involve the use of a normal username and password combo,
in addition to providing at least one additional factor.
The different types of authentication factors have grown in recent years—from codes
sent over SMS and magic links sent via email to dedicated mobile apps like Authy
and USB and NFC hardware devices like the YubiKey. Biometric factors are more
commonly used now as well, as users have more access to hardware that supports
things like fingerprint or face recognition. While MFA has shown itself to be much
more secure as a general approach, and many public services support it, it hasn’t
caught on as a mass market authentication scheme, although I do expect that to
change. For managing authentication of key services that are vital to the running of
your software or allow access to especially sensitive information (e.g., source code
access), I’d consider the use of MFA to be a must.
Common Single Sign-On Implementations
A common approach to authentication is to use some sort of single sign-on (SSO)
solution to ensure that a user has only to authenticate themselves only once per ses‐
sion, even if during that session they may end up interacting with multiple down‐
stream services or applications. For example, when you log in with your Google
account, you are logged in on Google Calendar, Gmail, and Google Docs, even
though these are separate systems.
When a principal tries to access a resource (like a web-based interface), they are
directed to authenticate with an identity provider. The identity provider may ask
them to provide a username and password or might require the use of something
more advanced like MFA. Once the identity provider is satisfied that the principal
has been authenticated, it gives information to the service provider, allowing it to
decide whether to grant them access to the resource.
376 
| 
Chapter 11: Security
