4 I’m looking at you, Sydney Morning Herald!
The Web
Before single-page apps, we had the web. Our interaction with the web was based on
visiting URLs and clicking on links that caused new pages to be loaded into our
browser. Our browsers were built to allow for navigation around these pages, with
bookmarks to mark pages of interest and backward and forward controls to revisit
previously accessed pages. You might all be rolling your eyes and thinking, “Of
course I know how the web works!”; however, it is a style of user interface that seems
to have fallen out of favor. Its simplicity is something I miss when I see our current
web-based user interface implementations—we’ve lost a lot by automatically assum‐
ing that a web-based UI means single-page apps.
In terms of dealing with different types of clients, there is nothing to stop the page
adapting what it shows based on the nature of the device requesting the page. The
concepts of progressive enhancement (or graceful degradation) should be well under‐
stood by now.
The simplicity of page-based decomposition from a technical implementation point
of view is a real appeal here. You don’t need any fancy JavaScript running in the
browser, nor do you need to use problematic iFrames. The user clicks a link, and a
new page is requested.
Where to Use It
Useful for either a monolithic frontend or a micro frontend approach, page-based
decomposition would be my default choice for user-interface decomposition if my
user interface was a website. The web page as a unit of decomposition is such a core
concept of the web as a whole that it becomes a simple and obvious technique for
breaking down a large web-based user interface.
I think the problem is that in the rush to use single-page application technology,
these user interfaces are becoming increasingly rare, to the extent that user experien‐
ces that in my opinion would better fit a website implementation end up being shoe‐
horned into a single-page application.4 You can of course combine page-based
decomposition with some of the other patterns we have covered. I could have a page
that contains widgets, for example—something we’ll look at next.
468 
| 
Chapter 14: User Interfaces
