5 Daniel Bryant, “Apple Rebuilds Siri Backend Services Using Apache Mesos,” InfoQ, May 3, 2015, https://
oreil.ly/NLUMX.
The Background Behind Kubernetes
Kubernetes started as an open source project at Google, which drew its inspiration
from the earlier container management systems Omega and Borg. Many of the core
concepts in Kubernetes are based on concepts around how container workloads are
managed inside Google, albeit with a slightly different target in mind. Borg runs sys‐
tems at a massive global scale, handling tens if not hundreds of thousands of contain‐
ers across data centers globally. If you want more detail about how the different
mindsets behind these three Google platforms compare, albeit from a Google-centric
viewpoint, I recommend “Borg, Omega, and Kubernetes” by Brendan Burns et al. as a
good overview.
While Kubernetes shares some DNA with Borg and Omega, working at massive scale
has not been a main driver behind the project. Both Nomad and Mesos (each of
which took a cue from Borg) have found a niche in situations in which clusters of
thousands of machines are needed, as demonstrated in Apple’s use of Mesos for Siri5
or Roblox’s use of Nomad.
Kubernetes wanted to take ideas from Google but provide a more developer-friendly
experience than that delivered by Borg or Omega. It’s possible to look at Google’s
decision to invest a lot of engineering effort in creating an open source tool in a
purely altruistic light, and while I’m sure that was the intention of some people, the
reality is that this is as much about the risk Google was seeing from competition in
the public cloud space, specifically AWS.
In the public cloud market, Google Cloud has gained ground but is still a distant
third behind Azure and AWS (who are out in front), and some analysis has it being
edged into fourth place by Alibaba Cloud. Despite the improving market share, it is
still nowhere near where Google wants it to be.
It seems likely that a major concern was that the clear market leader, AWS, could
eventually have a near monopoly in the cloud computing space. Moreover, concerns
regarding the cost of migration from one provider to another meant that such a posi‐
tion of market dominance would be hard to shift. And then along comes Kubernetes,
with its promise of being able to deliver a standard platform for running container
workloads that could be run by multiple vendors. The hope was that this would
enable migration from one provider to another and avoid an AWS-only future.
So you can see Kubernetes as a generous contribution from Google to the wider IT
industry, or as an attempt by Google to remain relevant in the fast-moving public
cloud space. I have no problem seeing both things as equally true.
264 
| 
Chapter 8: Deployment
