10 John Allspaw, “Blameless Post-Mortems and a Just Culture,” Code as Craft (blog), Etsy, May 22, 2012, https://
oreil.ly/7LzmL.
of subsequent outages. More human error? Perhaps Telstra thought so—in the wake
of the series of incidents, the COO resigned.
For a more informed take on how to create an organization where you can get the
best out of mistakes and create a nicer environment for your staff as well, John All‐
spaw’s “Blameless Post-Mortems and a Just Culture” is a great jumping-off point.10
Ultimately, as I’ve already highlighted numerous times in this chapter, resiliency
requires a questioning mind—a drive to constantly examine the weaknesses in our
system. This requires a culture of learning, and often the best learning can come in
the wake of an incident. It’s therefore vital that you ensure that when the worst hap‐
pens, you do your best to create an environment in which you can maximize the
information you gather in the aftermath to reduce the chances of it happening again.
Summary
As our software becomes more vital to the lives of our users, the drive toward
improving the resiliency of the software we create increases. As we’ve seen in this
chapter, though, we cannot achieve resiliency just by thinking about our software and
infrastructure; we also have to think about our people, processes, and organizations.
In this chapter we looked at the four core concepts of resiliency, as described by
David Woods:
Robustness
The ability to absorb expected perturbation
Rebound
The ability to recover after a traumatic event
Graceful extensibility
How well we deal with a situation that is unexpected
Sustained adaptability
The ability to continually adapt to changing environments, stakeholders, and
demands
Looking more narrowly at microservices, they give us a host of ways in which we can
improve the robustness of our systems. But this improved robustness is not free—you
still have to decide which options to use. Key stability patterns like circuit breakers,
time-outs, redundancy, isolation, idempotency, and the like are all tools at your dis‐
posal, but you have to decide when and where to use them. Beyond these narrow
Summary 
| 
417
