9 Famous for the development of the waterproof material Gore-Tex.
The team API should explicitly consider usability by other teams. Will other teams
find it easy and straightforward to interact with us, or will it be difficult and confusing?
How easy will it be for a new team to get on board with our code and working practi‐
ces? How do we respond to pull requests and suggestions from other teams? Is our
team backlog and product roadmap easily visible and understandable by other teams?
On Autonomy
Whatever industry you operate in, it is all about your people, and catching them doing
things right, and providing them with the confidence, the motivation, the freedom and
desire to achieve their true potential.
—John Timpson
Having lots of small teams isn’t by itself going to help if these teams just become
more silos that are still dependent on other teams to get things done. We need to
ensure that each of these small teams has the autonomy to do the job it is responsible
for. This means we need to give the teams more power to make decisions, and the
tools to ensure they can get as much done as possible without having to constantly
coordinate work with other teams. So enabling autonomy is key.
Many organizations have shown the benefits of creating autonomous teams. Keeping
organizational groups small, allowing them to build close bonds and work effectively
together without bringing in too much bureaucracy, has helped many organizations
grow and scale more effectively than some of their peers. W. L. Gore and Associates9
has found great success by making sure none of its business units ever gets to more
than 150 people, to make sure that everyone knows each other. For these smaller
business units to work, they have to be given power and responsibility to work as
autonomous units.
Many of these organizations seem to have drawn from the work done by anthropolo‐
gist Robin Dunbar, who looked at humans’ ability to form social groupings. His
theory was that our cognitive capacity places limits on how effectively we can main‐
tain different forms of social relationships. He estimated 150 people as how big a
group could grow to before it would need to split off or else it would collapse under
its own weight.
Timpson, a highly successful UK retailer, has achieved massive scale by empowering
its workforce, reducing the need for central functions, and allowing local stores to
make decisions for themselves, such as how much to refund unhappy customers.
Now chairman of the company, John Timpson is famous for scrapping internal rules
and replacing them with just two:
498 
| 
Chapter 15: Organizational Structures
