Recover
Recovery refers to our ability to get the system up and running again in the wake of
an attack, and also our ability to implement what we have learned to ensure problems
are less likely to happen again. With a microservice architecture, we have many more
moving parts, which can make recovery more complex if an issue has a broad impact.
So later in this chapter we will look at how simple things like automation and back‐
ups can help you rebuild a microservice system on demand and get your system back
up and running as quickly as possible.
Foundations of Application Security
OK, now that we have some core principles in place and some sense of the wide
world that security activities can cover, let’s look at a few foundational security topics
in the context of a microservice architecture if you want to build a more secure sys‐
tem—credentials, patching, backups, and rebuild.
Credentials
Broadly speaking, credentials give a person (or computer) access to some form of
restricted resource. This could be a database, a computer, a user account, or some‐
thing else. With a microservice architecture, in terms of how it compares to an equiv‐
alent monolithic architecture, we likely have the same number of humans involved,
but we have lots more credentials in the mix representing different microservices,
(virtual) machines, databases, and the like. This can lead to a degree of confusion
around how to restrict (or not restrict) access, and in many cases it can lead to a
“lazy” approach in which a small number of credentials with broad privileges are
used in an attempt to simplify things. This can in turn lead to more problems if cre‐
dentials are compromised.
We can break the topic of credentials down into two key areas. Firstly, we have the
credentials of the users (and operators) of our system. These are often the weakest
point of our system and are commonly used as an attack vector by malicious parties,
as we’ll see in a moment. Secondly, we can consider secrets—pieces of information
that are critical to running our microservices. Across both sets of credentials, we have
to consider the issues of rotation, revocation, and limiting scope.
354 
| 
Chapter 11: Security
