The mindset behind volatility-based decomposition is also evident in approaches like
bimodal IT. A concept put forward by Gartner, bimodal IT neatly breaks the world
down into the snappily named “Mode 1” (aka Systems of Record) and “Mode 2” (aka
Systems of Innovation) categories based on how fast (or slow) different systems need
to go. Mode 1 systems, we are told, don’t change much and don’t need much business
involvement. Mode 2 is where the action is, with systems that need to change quickly
and that require close involvement from the business. Putting aside for one moment
the drastic oversimplification inherent in such a categorization scheme, it also
implies a very fixed view of the world, and belies the sorts of transformations that are
evident across industry as companies look to “go digital.” Parts of companies’ sys‐
tems that didn’t need to change much in the past suddenly do, in order to open up
new market opportunities and provide services to their customers in ways that they
previously didn’t imagine.
Let’s come back to MusicCorp. Its first foray into what we now call digital was just
having a web page; all it offered back in the mid-nineties was a listing of what was for
sale, but you had to phone MusicCorp to place the order. It was little more than an
advert in a newspaper. Then online ordering became a thing, and the entire ware‐
house, which up until that point had just been handled with paper, had to be digi‐
tized. Who knows—perhaps MusicCorp will at some stage have to consider making
music available digitally! Although you might consider that MusicCorp is behind the
times, you can still appreciate the amount of upheaval that companies have been
going through as they understand how changing technology and customer behavior
can require significant changes in parts of a business that couldn’t easily be foreseen.
I dislike bimodal IT as a concept, as it becomes a way for people to dump stuff that is
hard to change into a nice neat box and say “we don’t need to deal with the issues in
there—that’s Mode 1.” It’s yet another model that a company can adopt to ensure
that nothing actually has to change. It also avoids the fact that quite often changes in
functionality require changes in “Systems of Record” (Mode 1) to allow for changes
in “Systems of Innovation” (Mode 2). In my experience, organizations adopting
bimodal IT do end up having two speeds—slow and slower.
To be fair to proponents of volatility-based decomposition, many of them aren’t nec‐
essarily recommending such simplistic models as bimodal IT. In fact, I find this tech‐
nique to be highly useful in helping to determine boundaries if the main driver is
about fast time to market—extracting functionality that is changing or needs to
change frequently makes perfect sense in such a situation. But again, the goal deter‐
mines the most appropriate mechanism.
Alternatives to Business Domain Boundaries 
| 
63
