Chapter 3, Splitting the Monolith
This chapter provides some guidance on how to take an existing monolithic
application and break it apart into microservices.
Chapter 4, Microservice Communication Styles
The last chapter in this part offers a discussion of the different types of microser‐
vice communication, including asynchronous versus synchronous calls and
request-response and event-driven collaboration styles.
Part II, Implementation
Moving from higher-level concepts to implementation detail, in this part we look at
techniques and technologies that can help you get the most out of microservices.
Chapter 5, Implementing Microservice Communication
In this chapter we take a deeper look at the specific technologies used to imple‐
ment inter-microservice communication.
Chapter 6, Workflow
This chapter offers a comparison of sagas and distributed transactions and dis‐
cusses their usefulness in modeling business processes involving multiple
microservices.
Chapter 7, Build
This chapter explains mapping from a microservice to repositories and builds.
Chapter 8, Deployment
In this chapter you’ll find discussion of the myriad options around deploying a
microservice, including a look at containers, Kubernetes, and FaaS.
Chapter 9, Testing
Here I discuss the challenges of testing microservices, including the issues caused
by end-to-end tests, and how consumer-driven contracts and in-production test‐
ing can help.
Chapter 10, From Monitoring to Observability
This chapter covers the shift from focusing on static monitoring activities to
thinking more broadly about how to improve the observability of microservice
architectures, along with some specific recommendations regarding tooling.
Chapter 11, Security
Microservice architectures can increase the surface area of attack but also give us
more opportunity to defend in depth. In this chapter, we explore this balance.
Chapter 12, Resiliency
This chapter offers a wider look at what resiliency is and at the part that micro‐
services can play in improving the resiliency of your applications.
xx 
| 
Preface
