It is also worth noting at this point that, at least based on the observations of the
authors of the “Exploring the Duality Between Product and Organizational Architec‐
tures” report I referenced earlier, if the organization building the system is more
loosely coupled (e.g., it consists of geographically distributed teams), the systems
being built will tend to be more modular, and therefore hopefully less coupled. The
tendency of a single team that owns many services to lean toward tighter integration
is very hard to maintain in a more distributed organization.
Conway’s Law in Reverse
So far, we’ve spoken about how the organization impacts the system design. But what
about the reverse? Namely, can a system design change the organization? While I
haven’t been able to find the same quality of evidence to support the idea that Con‐
way’s law works in reverse, I’ve seen it anecdotally.
Probably the best example was a client I worked with many years ago. Back in the
days when the web was fairly nascent, and the internet was seen as something that
arrived on an AOL floppy disk through the door, this company was a large print firm
with a small, modest website. It had a website because that was the thing to do, but in
the grand scheme of things the website was fairly unimportant to how the business
operated. When the original system was created, a fairly arbitrary technical decision
was made as to how the system would work.
The content for this system was sourced in multiple ways, but most of it came from
third parties that were placing ads for viewing by the general public. There was an
input system that allowed content to be created by the paying third parties, a central
system that took that data and enriched it in various ways, and an output system that
created the final website that the general public could browse.
Whether the original design decisions were right at the time is a conversation for his‐
torians, but many years on the company had changed quite a bit, and I and many of
my colleagues were starting to wonder if the system design was fit for the company’s
present state. Its physical print business had diminished significantly, and the reve‐
nues and therefore business operations of the organization were now dominated by
its online presence.
What we saw at that time was an organization tightly aligned to this three-part sys‐
tem. Three channels or divisions in the IT side of the business aligned with each of
the input, core, and output parts of the business. Within those channels, there were
separate delivery teams. What I didn’t realize at the time was that these organiza‐
tional structures didn’t predate the system design but actually grew up around it. As
the print side of the business diminished and the digital side of the business grew, the
system design inadvertently laid the path for how the organization grew.
522 
| 
Chapter 15: Organizational Structures
