4 It was more of a passive-aggressive argument, often without the “passive” bit.
Let’s explore each of these functions in a bit more depth and look at how a microser‐
vice architecture might change how you approach these ideas in comparison to a
more traditional monolithic architecture.
Identify
Before we can work out what we should protect, we need to work out who might be
after our stuff and what exactly they might be looking for. It’s often hard to put our‐
selves into the mindset of an attacker, but that’s exactly what we need to do to ensure
that we focus our efforts in the right place. Threat modeling is the first thing you
should look at when addressing this aspect of application security.
As human beings, we are quite bad at understanding risk. We often fixate on the
wrong things while ignoring the bigger problems that can be just out of sight. This of
course extends into the field of security. Our understanding about what security risks
we might be exposed to is often largely colored by our limited view of the system, our
skills, and our experiences.
When I chat with developers about security risks in the context of microservice archi‐
tecture, they immediately start talking about JWTs and mutual TLS. They reach for
technical solutions to technical problems they have some visibility of. I don’t mean to
point the finger just at developers—all of us have a limited view of the world. Coming
back to the analogy we used earlier, this is how we can end up with an incredibly
secure front door and a wide-open back door.
At one company I worked at, there had been a number of discussions around the
need to install closed-circuit TV (CCTV) cameras in the reception areas of the com‐
pany’s offices all over the world. This was due to an incident in which an unauthor‐
ized person had gained access to the front office area and then the corporate network.
The belief was that a CCTV camera system would not only deter others from trying
the same thing again but also help identify the individuals involved after the fact.
The specter of corporate surveillance unleashed a wave of anguish in the company
regarding “big brother"–type concerns. Depending on which side of the argument
you were on, this was either about spying on employees (if you were “pro” cameras)
or about being happy for intruders to gain access to the buildings (if you were “anti”
cameras). Putting aside the problematic nature of such a polarized discussion,4 one
employee spoke up in a rather sheepish manner to suggest that perhaps the discus‐
sion was a bit misguided as we were missing some bigger issues—namely the fact that
people seemed unconcerned that the front door of one of the main offices had a
faulty lock, and that for years people would arrive in the morning to find the door
unlocked.
The Five Functions of Cybersecurity 
| 
351
