These changes, if they can be accommodated, can make your life much easier, avoid‐
ing the need to even create compensating transactions for some steps. This can be
especially important if implementing a compensating transaction is difficult. You
may be able to move a step later in the process to a stage at which it never needs to be
rolled back.
Mixing fail-backward and fail-forward situations
It is totally appropriate to have a mix of failure recovery modes. Some failures may
require a rollback (fail backward); others may be fail forward. For the order process‐
ing, for example, once we’ve taken money from the customer, and the item has been
packaged, the only step left is to dispatch the package. If for whatever reason we can’t
dispatch the package (perhaps the delivery firm we use doesn’t have space in its vans
to take an order today), it seems very odd to roll the whole order back. Instead, we’d
probably just retry the dispatch (perhaps queuing it for the following day), and if that
fails, we’d require human intervention to resolve the situation.
Implementing Sagas
So far we’ve looked at the logical model for how sagas work, but we need to go a bit
deeper to examine ways of implementing the saga itself. We can look at two styles of
saga implementation. Orchestrated sagas more closely follow the original solution
space and rely primarily on centralized coordination and tracking. These can be com‐
pared to choreographed sagas, which avoid the need for centralized coordination in
favor of a more loosely coupled model but can make tracking the progress of a saga
more complicated.
Orchestrated sagas
Orchestrated sagas use a central coordinator (what we’ll call an orchestrator from
now on) to define the order of execution and to trigger any required compensating
action. You can think of orchestrated sagas as a command-and-control approach: the
orchestrator controls what happens and when, and with that comes a good degree of
visibility into what is happening with any given saga.
Taking the order fulfillment process in Figure 6-5, let’s see how this central coordina‐
tion process would work as a set of collaborating services, as shown in Figure 6-9.
Sagas 
| 
189
