common functionality. The idea was for the team that currently managed the shared
microservice to instead provide a framework, which really just consisted of the exist‐
ing microservice with only the common functionality. Each country-specific team
could launch its own instance of the skeleton microservice, plugging in its own cus‐
tom functionality, as shown in Figure 15-4.
Figure 15-4. A common framework could allow multiple variations of the same micro‐
service to be operated by different teams
The important thing to note here is that although we can share the common func‐
tionality in this example across each country-specific variation of the microservice,
this common functionality cannot be updated in all variations of the microservice at
the same time without requiring a large-scale lockstep release. The core team that
manages the framework might make a new version available, but it would be up to
each team to pull in the latest version of the common code and redeploy it. In this
specific situation, FinanceCo was OK with this restriction.
It is worth highlighting that this specific situation was pretty rare, and something I’d
encountered only once or twice before. My initial focus was on finding ways to either
split apart the responsibilities of this central shared microservice or else reassign
ownership. My concern was that creating internal frameworks can be a fraught activ‐
ity. It’s all too easy for the framework to become overly bloated or to constrain the
development of the teams using it. This is the sort of problem that doesn’t manifest
itself on day one. When creating an internal framework, it all starts with the best
intentions. Although in FinanceCo’s situation I felt it was the right way forward, I’d
caution against adopting this approach too readily unless you’ve exhausted your
other options.
External contribution through libraries
A variation of this approach would be to instead have each country-specific team
contribute a library with its country-specific functionality inside it, and then have
514 
| 
Chapter 15: Organizational Structures
