1 Nicole Forsgren, Jez Humble, and Gene Kim, Accelerate: The Science of Building and Scaling High Performing
Technology Organizations (Portland, OR: IT Revolution, 2018).
In their book Accelerate,1 Nicole Forsgren, Jez Humble, and Gene Kim looked at the
characteristics of autonomous, loosely coupled teams to better understand which
behaviors are most important to achieving optimum performance. According to the
authors, what is key is whether teams can:
• Make large-scale changes to the design of their system without the permission of
somebody outside the team
• Make large-scale changes to the design of their system without depending on
other teams to make changes in their systems or creating significant work for
other teams
• Complete their work without communicating and coordinating with people out‐
side their team
• Deploy and release their product or service on demand, regardless of other serv‐
ices it depends upon
• Do most of their testing on demand, without requiring an integrated test environ‐
ment
• Perform deployments during normal business hours with negligible downtime
The stream-aligned team, a concept we first encountered in Chapter 1, aligns with
this vision for a loosely coupled organization. If you are trying to move toward a
stream-aligned team structure, these characteristics make for a fantastic checklist to
ensure you are going in the right direction.
Some of these characteristics look more technical in nature—for example, being able
to deploy during normal business hours could be enabled through an architecture
that supports zero-downtime deployments. But all of these in fact require a behavio‐
ral change. To allow teams to have a fuller sense of ownership around their systems, a
move away from centralized control is required, including how architectural decision
making is done (something we explore in Chapter 16). Fundamentally, achieving
loosely coupled organizational structures requires that power and accountability are
decentralized.
The majority of this chapter will discuss how we make this all work, looking at team
sizes, types of ownership models, the role of the platform, and more. There are a host
of changes you can consider making to move your organization in the right direction.
Before all that, though, let’s explore the interplay between organization and architec‐
ture a bit more.
492 
| 
Chapter 15: Organizational Structures
