5 Daniel Rodriguez et al., “Empirical Findings on Team Size and Productivity in Software Development,” Jour‐
nal of Systems and Software 85, no. 3 (2012), doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2011.09.009.
Netflix learned from this example and ensured that from the beginning it structured
itself around small, independent teams, so that the services they created would also be
independent from each other. This ensured that the architecture of the system was
optimized for speed of change. Effectively, Netflix designed the organizational struc‐
ture for the system architecture it wanted. I’ve also heard that this extended into the
seating plans for teams at Netflix—teams whose services would talk to each other
would sit closely together. The idea being that you would want to have more frequent
communication with teams that use your services, or whose services you yourself use.
Team Size
Ask any developer how big a team should be, and while you’ll get varying answers,
there will be general consensus that, to a point, smaller is better. If you push them to
put a number on the “ideal” team size, you’ll largely get answers in the range of 5 to
10 people.
I did some research into the best team size for software development. I found many
studies, but a lot of them are flawed in such a way that drawing conclusions for the
broader world of software development is too difficult. The best study I found,
“Empirical Findings on Team Size and Productivity in Software Development,”5 was
at least able to draw from a large corpus of data, albeit not one that is necessarily rep‐
resentative of software development as a whole. The researchers’ findings indicated
that, “as expected from the literature, productivity is worst for those projects with (an
average team size) larger or equal to 9 people.” This research at least appears to back
up my own anecdotal experience.
We like working in small teams, and it’s not hard to see why. With a small group of
people all focused on the same outcomes, it’s easier to stay aligned, and easier to
coordinate on work. I do have an (untested) hypothesis that being geographically dis‐
persed or having large time-zone differences among team members will cause chal‐
lenges that might further limit the optimum team size, but that thinking is likely
better explored by someone other than me.
So small teams good, large teams bad. That seems pretty straightforward. Now, if you
can do all the work you need to do with a single team, then great! Your world is a
simple one, and you could probably skip much of the rest of this chapter. But what if
you have more work than you have time for? An obvious reaction to that is to add
people. But as we know, adding people may not necessarily help you get more done.
Team Size 
| 
495
