Microservices aren’t easy. Try the simple stuff first.
Finally, without a clear goal, it becomes difficult to know where to start. Which
microservice should you create first? Without an overarching understanding of what
you are trying to achieve, you’re flying blind.
So be clear about what change you are trying to achieve, and consider easier ways to
achieve that end goal before considering microservices. If microservices really are the
best way to move forward, then track your progress against that end goal and change
course as necessary.
Incremental Migration
If you do a big-bang rewrite, the only thing you’re guaranteed of is a big bang.
—Martin Fowler
If you get to the point of deciding that breaking apart your existing monolithic sys‐
tem is the right thing to do, I strongly advise you to chip away at the monolith,
extracting a bit at a time. An incremental approach will help you learn about micro‐
services as you go and will also limit the impact of getting something wrong (and you
will get things wrong!). Think of our monolith as a block of marble. We could blow
the whole thing up, but that rarely ends well. It makes much more sense to just chip
away at it incrementally.
Break the big journey into lots of little steps. Each step can be carried out and learned
from. If it turns out to be a retrograde step, it was only a small one. Either way, you
learn from it, and the next step you take will be informed by those steps that came
before.
Breaking things into smaller pieces also allows you to identify quick wins and learn
from them. This can help make the next step easier and can help build momentum.
By splitting out microservices one at a time, you also get to unlock the value they
bring incrementally, rather than having to wait for some big bang deployment.
All of this leads to what has become my stock advice for people looking at microser‐
vices: if you think microservices are a good idea, start somewhere small. Choose one
or two areas of functionality, implement them as microservices, get them deployed
into production, and then reflect on whether creating your new microservices helped
you get closer to your end goal.
72 
| 
Chapter 3: Splitting the Monolith
