Disadvantages
The main downsides of nonblocking asynchronous communication, relative to
blocking synchronous communication, are the level of complexity and the range of
choice. As we’ve already outlined, there are different styles of asynchronous commu‐
nication to choose from—which one is right for you? When we start digging into
how these different styles of communication are implemented, there is a potentially
bewildering list of technology we could look at.
If asynchronous communication doesn’t map to your mental models of computing,
adopting an asynchronous style of communication will be challenging at first. And as
we’ll explore further when we look in detail at the various styles of asynchronous
communication, there are a lot of different, interesting ways in which you can get
yourself into a lot of trouble.
Async/Await and When Asynchronous Is Still Blocking
As with many areas of computing, we can use the same term in different contexts to
have very different meanings. A style of programming that appears to be especially
popular is the use of constructs like async/await to work with a potentially asynchro‐
nous source of data but in a blocking, synchronous style.
In Example 4-1, we see a very simple JavaScript example of this in action. The cur‐
rency exchange rates fluctuate frequently through the day, and we receive these via a
message broker. We define a Promise. Generically, a promise is something that will
resolve to a state at some point in the future. In our case, our eurToGbp will eventually
resolve to being the next euro-to-GBP exchange rate.
Example 4-1. An example of working with a potentially asynchronous call in a
blocking, synchronous fashion
async function f() {
  let eurToGbp = new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
    //code to fetch latest exchange rate between EUR and GBP
    ...
  });
  var latestRate = await eurToGbp; 
  process(latestRate); 
}
Wait until the latest EUR-to-GBP exchange rate is fetched.
Won’t run until the promise is fulfilled.
100 
| 
Chapter 4: Microservice Communication Styles
