pick to allow us to embrace a culture of automation, define our infrastructure and
application configuration in code, and ideally also manage desired state for us.
Let’s briefly summarize the various deployment options before looking at how well
they deliver on these ideas:
Physical machine
A microservice instance is deployed directly onto a physical machine, with no
virtualization.
Virtual machine
A microservice instance is deployed on to a virtual machine.
Container
A microservice instance runs as a separate container on a virtual or physical
machine. That container runtime may be managed by a container orchestration
tool like Kubernetes.
Application container
A microservice instance is run inside an application container that manages
other application instances, typically on the same runtime.
Platform as a Service (PaaS)
A more highly abstracted platform is used to deploy microservice instances,
often abstracting away all concepts of the underlying servers used to run your
microservices. Examples include Heroku, Google App Engine, and AWS
Beanstalk.
Function as a Service (FaaS)
A microservice instance is deployed as one or more functions, which are run and
managed by an underlying platform like AWS Lambda or Azure Functions.
Arguably, FaaS is a specific type of PaaS, but it deserves exploration in its own
right given the recent popularity of the idea and the questions it raises about
mapping from a microservice to a deployed artifact.
Physical Machines
An increasingly rare option, you may find yourself deploying microservices directly
onto physical machines. By “directly,” I mean that there are no layers of virtualization
or containerization between you and the underlying hardware. This has become less
and less common for a few different reasons. Firstly, deploying directly onto physical
hardware can lead to lower utilization across your estate. If I have a single instance of
a microservice running on a physical machine and I use only half the CPU, memory,
or I/O provided by the hardware, then the remaining resources are wasted. This
problem has led to the virtualization of most computing infrastructure, allowing you
to coexist multiple virtual machines on the same physical machine. It gives you much
238 
| 
Chapter 8: Deployment
