Figure 1-10. Microservices can allow you to more easily embrace different technologies
With microservices, we are also able to more quickly adopt technologies and to
understand how new advancements might help us. One of the biggest barriers to try‐
ing out and adopting a new technology is the risks associated with it. With a mono‐
lithic application, if I want to try a new programming language, database, or
framework, any change will affect much of my system. With a system consisting of
multiple services, I have multiple new places to try out a new piece of technology. I
can pick a microservice with perhaps the lowest risk and use the technology there,
knowing that I can limit any potential negative impact. Many organizations find this
ability to more quickly absorb new technologies to be a real advantage.
Embracing multiple technologies doesn’t come without overhead, of course. Some
organizations choose to place some constraints on language choices. Netflix and
Twitter, for example, mostly use the Java Virtual Machine (JVM) as a platform
because those companies have a very good understanding of the reliability and per‐
formance of that system. They also develop libraries and tooling for the JVM that
make operating at scale much easier, but the reliance on JVM-specific libraries makes
things more difficult for non-Java-based services or clients. But neither Twitter nor
Netflix uses only one technology stack for all jobs.
The fact that internal technology implementation is hidden from consumers can also
make upgrading technologies easier. Your entire microservice architecture might be
based on Spring Boot, for example, but you could change JVM version or framework
versions for just one microservice, making it easier to manage the risk of upgrades.
Robustness
A key concept in improving the robustness of your application is the bulkhead. A
component of a system may fail, but as long as that failure doesn’t cascade, you
can isolate the problem, and the rest of the system can carry on working. Service
Advantages of Microservices 
| 
23
