12 Paul Ingles, “Convergence to Kubernetes,” Medium, June 18, 2018, https://oreil.ly/Ho7kY.
Now, I believe that in some cases the same group could be both a CoP and an ena‐
bling team, but in my own experience this is rare. There is definite overlap, though.
Both enabling teams and communities of practice give you insight into what’s hap‐
pening in different teams across your organization. This insight can help you under‐
stand whether you need to rebalance your global versus local optimization, or help
you identify the need for some more central help, but the divide here is in the respon‐
sibilities and capabilities of the group.
Members of an enabling team are often working full-time as part of the team, or else
they have a significant amount of their time ring-fenced for such a purpose. As such,
they have more bandwidth to put changes into action—to actually work with other
teams and help them. Communities of practice are focused more on enabling learn‐
ing—the individuals in the group are often participating in a forum for a few hours a
week at most, and the membership of such a group is often fluid.
CoPs and enabling teams can work very effectively together, of course. Often, a CoP
is able to provide valuable insights that can help an enabling team better understand
what is needed. Consider a Kubernetes CoP sharing its experience of how painful it
was to work on its company’s development cluster with the platform team that man‐
ages the cluster. On the subject of platform teams, that is a topic worth looking into
in more detail.
The Platform
To return to our loosely coupled, stream-aligned teams, we expect them to do their
own testing in isolated environments, manage deployments in such a way that they
can be done during the day, and make changes to their system architecture when
needed. All of this seems to be pushing more and more responsibility—and work—
into these teams. Enabling teams as a general concept can help here, but ultimately
stream-aligned teams need a self-service set of tools that allows them to do their
job—this is the platform.
Without a platform, in fact, you may find it difficult to change the organization. In
his article “Convergence to Kubernetes,”12 RVU’s CTO Paul Ingles shares the experi‐
ence of price comparison website Uswitch moving away from the direct use of low-
level AWS services toward a more highly abstracted platform based on Kubernetes.
The idea was that this platform allowed RVU’s stream-aligned teams to focus more
on delivering new features and spend less time on managing infrastructure. As Paul
puts it:
We didn’t change our organisation because we wanted to use Kubernetes; we used
Kubernetes because we wanted to change our organization.
506 
| 
Chapter 15: Organizational Structures
