is no longer maintained, the underlying platform takes the required steps to bring the
system back into desired state.
As a simple example of how desired state management might work, you could specify
the number of instances your microservice requires, perhaps also specifying how
much memory and CPU those instances need. Some underlying platform takes this
configuration and applies it, bringing the system into the desired state. It’s up to the
platform to, among other things, identify which machines have spare resources that
can be allocated to run the requested number of instances. As Figure 8-13 shows, if
one of those instances dies, the platform recognizes that the current state doesn’t
match the desired state and takes appropriate action by launching a replacement
instance.
Figure 8-13. A platform providing desired state management, spinning up a new
instance when one dies
The beauty of desired state management is that the platform itself manages how the
desired state is maintained. It frees development and operations people alike from
having to worry about exactly how things are being done—they just have to focus on
getting the desired state definition right in the first place. It also means that in the
event of a problem occurring, such as an instance dying, the underlying hardware
failing, or a data center shutting down, the platform can handle the issue for you
without human intervention being required.
While it’s possible to build your own toolchain to apply desired state management,
typically you use a platform that already supports it. Kubernetes is one such tool that
embraces this idea, and you can also achieve something similar using concepts such
as autoscaling groups on a public cloud provider like Azure or AWS. Another plat‐
form that can provide this capability is Nomad. Unlike Kubernetes, which is focused
on deploying and managing container-based workloads, Nomad has a very flexible
model around running other sorts of application workloads as well, such as Java
Principles of Microservice Deployment 
| 
235
