14 I mean no disrespect if this is you—I’ve done this myself more than once.
15 I mean, why not yellow? It’s the most common color!
domain model is,14 event storming brings together technical and nontechnical stake‐
holders in a joint exercise. The idea is that, by making the development of the
domain model a joint activity, you end up with a shared, joined-up view of the world.
It’s worth mentioning at this point that while the domain models defined through
event storming can be used to implement event-driven systems—and indeed, the
mapping is very straightforward—you can also use such a domain model to build a
more request/response-oriented system.
Logistics
Alberto has some very specific views as to how event storming should be run, and on
some of these points I am very much in agreement. Firstly, get everyone in a room
together. This is often the most difficult step—getting people’s calendars to line up
can be a problem, as can finding a big enough room. Those issues were all true in a
pre-COVID world, but as I write this during the virus-related lockdown in the UK,
I’m aware that this step might be even more problematic in the future. The key,
though, is to have all stakeholders present at the same time. You want representatives
of all parts of the domain that you plan to model: users, subject matter experts, prod‐
uct owners—whoever is best placed to help represent each part of the domain.
Once everyone is in a room together, Alberto suggests the removal of all chairs to
make sure everyone gets up and is involved. As someone with a bad back, while this
strategy is something I understand, I recognize that it may not work for everyone.
One thing I do agree with Alberto about is the need to have a large space where the
modeling can be done. A common solution is to pin large rolls of brown paper to the
walls of the room, allowing for all the walls to be used for capturing information.
The main modeling tool is sticky notes to capture the various concepts, with differ‐
ently colored notes representing different concepts.
The process
The exercise starts with the participants identifying the domain events. These repre‐
sent things that happen in the system—they are the facts that you care about. “Order
Placed” would be an event that we would care about in the context of MusicCorp, as
would “Payment Received.” These are captured on orange sticky notes. It is at this
point that I have another disagreement with Alberto’s structure, as the events are far
and away the most numerous things you’ll be capturing, and orange sticky notes are
surprisingly hard to get hold of.15
60 
| 
Chapter 2: How to Model Microservices
