Acknowledgments
I am continually amazed by the support I get from my family, especially that of my
wife, Lindy Stephens, who puts up with so much with amazing good grace. To say
this book wouldn’t exist without her is an understatement, even if she doesn’t always
believe me when I tell her that. This is for her. It’s also for my dad, Jack, Josie, Kane,
and the wider Gilmanco Staynes clan.
Much of this book was written during a global pandemic, which as I write these
acknowledgments is still ongoing. It may not mean much, but I want to extend my
thanks to the NHS here in the UK, and to all the people worldwide who are keeping
us safe by working on vaccines, treating the sick, delivering our food, and helping in a
thousand other ways I wouldn’t understand. This is also for all of you.
This second edition wouldn’t exist without the first, so I’d like to reiterate my thanks
to everyone who helped me during the challenging process of writing my first book,
include the technical reviewers Ben Christensen, Martin Fowler, and Venkat Subra‐
maniam; James Lewis for our many enlightening conversations; the O’Reilly team of
Brian MacDonald, Rachel Monaghan, Kristen Brown, and Betsy Waliszewski; and
excellent review feedback from readers Anand Krishnaswamy, Kent McNeil, Charles
Haynes, Chris Ford, Aidy Lewis, Will Thames, Jon Eaves, Rolf Russell, Badrinath
Janakiraman, Daniel Bryant, Ian Robinson, Jim Webber, Stewart Gleadow, Evan
Bottcher, Eric Sword, and Olivia Leonard. And thank to Mike Loukides, I guess, for
getting me into this mess in the first place!
For the second edition, Martin Fowler once again returned as technical reviewer and
was joined by Daniel Bryant and Sarah Wells, who were generous with their time and
feedback. I’d also like to thank Nicky Wrightson and Alexander von Zitzerwitz for
helping push the technical review over the finishing line. On the O’Reilly front, the
whole process was overseen by my awesome editor, Nicole Taché, without whom I
would certainly have gone insane; Melissa Duffield, who seems to do a better job of
managing my workload than I do; Deb Baker, Arthur Johnson, and the rest of the
production team (I’m sorry I don’t know all your names, but thank you!); and Mary
Treseler, for steering the ship through some difficult times.
In addition, the second edition has benefited hugely from help and insights from a
number of people, including (in no particular order) Dave Coombes and the team at
Tyro, Dave Halsey and the team at Money Supermarket, Tom Kerkhove, Erik Doer‐
nenburg, Graham Tackley, Kent Beck, Kevlin Henney, Laura Bell, Adrian Mouat,
Sarah Taraporewalla, Uwe Friedrichse, Liz Fong-Jones, Kane Stephens, Gilmanco
Staynes, Adam Tornhill, Venkat Subramaniam, Susanne Kaiser, Jan Schaumann,
Grady Booch, Pini Reznik, Nicole Forsgren, Jez Humble, Gene Kim, Manuel Pais,
Matthew Skelton, and the South Sydney Rabbitohs. Finally, I’d like to thank the awe‐
some readers of the early access version of the book, who provided invaluable
Preface 
| 
xxiii
