on how much the topologies vary. If the only thing that changes from one environ‐
ment to another is the number of microservice instances, this might be as simple as
parameterizing this value to allow for different numbers to be passed in as part of the
deployment activity.
So, to summarize, a single logical microservice can be deployed into multiple envi‐
ronments. From one environment to the next, the number of instances of each
microservice can vary based on the requirements of each environment.
Principles of Microservice Deployment
With so many options before you for how to deploy your microservices, I think it’s
important that I establish some core principles in this area. A solid understanding of
these principles will stand you in good stead no matter the choices you end up mak‐
ing. We’ll look at each principle in detail shortly, but just to get us started, here are
the core ideas we’ll be covering:
Isolated execution
Run microservice instances in an isolated fashion such that they have their own
computing resources, and their execution cannot impact other microservice
instances running nearby.
Focus on automation
As the number of microservices increases, automation becomes increasingly
important. Focus on choosing technology that allows for a high degree of auto‐
mation, and adopt automation as a core part of your culture.
Infrastructure as code
Represent the configuration for your infrastructure to ease automation and pro‐
mote information sharing. Store this code in source control to allow for environ‐
ments to be re-created.
Zero-downtime deployment
Take independent deployability further and ensure that deploying a new version
of a microservice can be done without any downtime to users of your service (be
they humans or other microservices).
Desired state management
Use a platform that maintains your microservice in a defined state, launching
new instances if required in the event of outages or traffic increases.
Isolated Execution
You may be tempted, especially early on in your microservices journey, to just put all
of your microservice instances on a single machine (which could be a single physical
228 
| 
Chapter 8: Deployment
