Data
The nature of the data you hold and manage can drive you toward different forms of
decomposition. For example, you might want to limit which services handle person‐
ally identifiable information (PII), both to reduce your risk of data breaches and to
simplify oversight and implementation of things like GDPR.
For one of my recent clients, a payment company we’ll call PaymentCo, the use of
certain types of data directly influenced the decisions we made about system decom‐
position. PaymentCo handles credit card data, which means that its system needs to
comply with various requirements set down by Payment Card Industry (PCI) stand‐
ards for how this data needs to be managed. As part of this compliance, the com‐
pany’s system and processes needed to be audited. PaymentCo had a need to handle
the full credit card data, and at a volume that meant its system had to comply with
PCI Level 1, which is the most stringent level and which requires quarterly external
assessment of the systems and practices related to how the data is managed.
Many of the PCI requirements are common sense, but ensuring that the whole sys‐
tem complied with these requirements, not least the need for the system to be audited
by an external party, was proving to be quite onerous. As a result, the company
wanted to split out the part of the system that handled the full credit card data—
meaning that only a subset of the system required this additional level of oversight. In
Figure 2-17, we see a simplified form of the design we came up with. Services operat‐
ing in the green zone (enclosed by a dotted green line) never see any credit card
information—that data is limited to processes (and networks) in the red zone (sur‐
rounded by red dashes). The gateway diverts calls to the appropriate services (and the
appropriate zone); as the credit card information passes through this gateway, it is in
effect also in the red zone.
As credit card information never flows into the green zone, all services in this area
can be exempted from a full PCI audit. Services in the red zone are in scope for such
oversight. When working through the design, we did everything we could to limit
what has to be in this red zone. It’s key to note that we had to make sure that the
credit card information never flows to the green zone at all—if a microservice in the
green zone could request this information, or if that information could be sent back
to the green zone by a microservice in the red zone, then the clear lines of separation
would break down.
Segregation of data is often driven by a variety of privacy and security concerns; we’ll
come back to this topic and the example of PaymentCo in Chapter 11.
64 
| 
Chapter 2: How to Model Microservices
