6 Frederick P. Brooks Jr, The Mythical Man-Month: Essays on Software Engineering, Anniversary ed. (Boston:
Addison-Wesley, 1995).
Understanding Conway’s Law
Anecdotal and empirical evidence suggests our organizational structure has a strong
influence on the nature (and quality) of the systems we create. We also know we want
smaller teams too. So how does this understanding help us? Well, fundamentally, if
we want a loosely coupled architecture to allow for changes to be made more easily,
we want a loosely coupled organization too. Put a different way, the reason we often
want a more loosely coupled organization is that we want different parts of the orga‐
nization to be able to decide and act more quickly and efficiently, and a loosely cou‐
pled systems architecture helps hugely with that.
In Accelerate, the authors found a significant correlation between those organizations
that had loosely coupled architecture and their ability to more effectively make use of
larger delivery teams:
If we achieve a loosely coupled, well-encapsulated architecture with an organizational
structure to match, two important things happen. First, we can achieve better delivery
performance, increasing both tempo and stability while reducing the burnout and the
pain of deployment. Second, we can substantially grow the size of our engineering
organization and increase productivity linearly—or better than linearly—as we do so.
Organizationally, the shift that has been coming for a while now, especially for organ‐
izations that operate at scale, is a move away from centralized command and control
models. With centralized decision making, the speed at which our organization can
react is significantly blunted. This is compounded as the organization grows—the
bigger it becomes, the more its centralized nature reduces the efficiency of decision
making and the speed of action.
Organizations have increasingly recognized that if you want to scale your organiza‐
tion but still want to move quickly, you need to distribute responsibility more effec‐
tively, breaking down central decision making and pushing decisions into parts of the
organization that can operate with increased autonomy.
The trick, then, is to create large organizations out of smaller, autonomous teams.
Small Teams, Large Organization
Adding manpower to a late software project makes it later.
—Fred Brooks (Brooks’s Law)
In his famous essay, “The Mythical Man-Month,”6 author Fred Brooks attempts to
explain why using “a man-month” as an estimation technique is problematic, due to
496 
| 
Chapter 15: Organizational Structures
