1 Lisa Crispin and Janet Gregory, Agile Testing: A Practical Guide for Testers and Agile Teams (Upper Saddle
River, NJ: Addison-Wesley, 2008).
Types of Tests
Like many consultants, I’m guilty of occasionally using quadrants as a way of catego‐
rizing the world, and I was starting to worry this book wouldn’t have one. Luckily,
Brian Marick came up with a fantastic categorization system for tests that fits right in.
Figure 9-1 shows a variation of Marick’s quadrant from Lisa Crispin and Janet Greg‐
ory’s book Agile Testing1 that helps categorize the different types of tests.
Figure 9-1. Brian Marick’s testing quadrant. Lisa Crispin and Janet Gregory, Agile
Testing: A Practical Guide for Testers and Agile Teams, © 2009
At the bottom of the quadrant, we have tests that are technology facing—that is, tests
that aid the developers in creating the system in the first place. Property tests such as
performance tests and small-scoped unit tests fall into this category; all are typically
automated. The top half of the quadrant includes those tests that help the nontechni‐
cal stakeholders understand how your system works, which we call business-facing
tests. These could be large-scoped, end-to-end tests, as shown in the Acceptance
Testing quadrant at top left; or manual testing (as typified by user testing done
against a UAT system), as shown in the Exploratory Testing quadrant.
At this point it’s worth calling out the fact that the vast majority of these tests focus
on preproduction validation. Specifically, we are using these tests to ensure that the
software is of sufficient quality before it is deployed into a production environment.
Typically, these tests passing (or failing) would be a gating condition for deciding
whether the software should be deployed.
Increasingly, we are seeing the value of testing our software once we actually get into
a production environment. We’ll talk more about the balance between these two
ideas later in the chapter, but for now it’s worth highlighting a limitation of Marick’s
quadrant in this regard.
276 
| 
Chapter 9: Testing
