1 Please, let’s not make everything about Brexit.
Principle of Least Privilege
When granting application access to individuals, external or internal systems, or even
our own microservices, we should pay careful attention to what access we grant. The
principle of least privilege describes the idea that when granting access we should
grant the minimum access a party needs to carry out the required functionality, and
only for the time period they need it. The main benefit of this is to ensure that if cre‐
dentials are compromised by an attacker, those credentials will give the malicious
party as limited access as possible.
If a microservice only has read-only access to a database, then an attacker gaining
access to those database credentials will only gain read-only access, and only to that
database. If the credential to the database expires before it is compromised, then the
credential becomes useless. This concept can be extended to limit which microservi‐
ces can be communicated with by specific parties.
As we’ll see later in this chapter, the principle of least privilege can extend to ensuring
that access controls are only granted for limited timeframes as well, further limiting
any bad outcomes that can occur in the event of a compromise.
Defense in Depth
The UK, where I live, is full of castles. These castles are a partial reminder of our
country’s history (not least a reminder of a time before the United Kingdom was,
well, united to some degree). They remind us of a time when people felt the need to
defend their property from foes. Sometimes the perceived foes were different—many
of the castles near where I live in Kent were designed to defend against coastal inva‐
sions from France.1 Whatever the reason, castles can be a great example of the princi‐
ple of defense in depth.
Having only one protection mechanism is a problem if an attacker finds a way to
breach that defense, or if the protection mechanism defends against only certain
types of attackers. Think of a coastal defense fort whose only wall faces the sea, leav‐
ing it totally defenseless against an attack by land. If you look at Dover Castle, which
is very close to where I live, there are multiple protections that are easy to see. Firstly,
it is on a large hill, making an approach to the castle by land difficult. It has not one
wall but two—a breach in the first wall still requires that an attacker deals with the
second one. And once you’re through the final wall, you have a large and imposing
keep (tower) to deal with.
The same principle must apply when we build protections into our application secu‐
rity. Having multiple protections in place to defend against attackers is vital. With
Core Principles 
| 
347
