2 Try as I might, I can’t find the original source for this categorization scheme.
microservice architectures, we have many more places where we are able to protect
our systems. By breaking our functionality apart into different microservices and lim‐
iting the scope of what those microservices can do, we’re already applying defense in
depth. We can also run microservices on different network segments, apply network-
based protections at more places, and even make use of a mix of technology for
building and running these microservices such that a single zero-day exploit may not
impact everything we have.
Microservices provide more ability to defend in depth than equivalent single-process
monolithic applications, and as a result, they can help organizations build more
secure systems.
Types of Security Controls
When considering the security controls we might put in place to secure our system,
we can categorize them as:2
Preventative
Stopping an attack from happening. This includes storing secrets securely,
encrypting data at rest and in transit, and implementing proper authentication
and authorization mechanisms.
Detective
Alerting you to the fact that an attack is happening/has happened. Application
firewalls and intrusion detection services are good examples.
Responsive
Helping you respond during/after an attack. Having an automated mechanism to
rebuild your system, working backups to recover data, and a proper comms plan
in place in the wake of an incident can be vital.
A combination of all three will be required to properly secure a system, and you may
have multiples of each type. Coming back to our castle example, we might have mul‐
tiple walls, which represent multiple preventative controls. We could have watchtow‐
ers in place and a beacon system so we can see if an attack is happening. Finally, we
might have some carpenters and stonemasons on standby in case we need to
strengthen the doors or walls in the wake of an attack. Obviously, you are unlikely to
be building castles for a living, so we’ll look at examples of these controls for a micro‐
service architecture later in this chapter.
348 
| 
Chapter 11: Security
