9 United States President’s Commission on the Accident at Three Mile Island, The Need for Change, the Legacy
of TMI: Report of the President’s Commission on the Accident at Three Mile Island (Washington, DC: The
Commission, 1979).
10 National Transportation Safety Board, Safety Recommendation Report: Assumptions Used in the Safety Assess‐
ment Process and the Effects of Multiple Alerts and Indications on Pilot Performance (Washington, DC: NTSB,
2019).
hard drives fail so much we don’t want them screwed in. We just rip them out, throw
them in the bin, and velcro in a new one.”
The systems Google built assumed that hard drives would fail. It optimized the
design of these servers to ensure that hard drive replacement was as easy as possible.
As the system had been built to tolerate the failure of a hard drive, while it was
important that the drive was replaced eventually, chances are a single hard drive fail‐
ure wasn’t going to cause any significant issues that would be visible to the user. With
thousands of servers in a Google data center, it would be someone’s daily task to just
walk along a row of racks and replace hard drives as they went. Sure, the drive failure
was an issue, but one that could be dealt with in a routine fashion. A hard drive fail‐
ure was considered routine—not worth calling someone about outside of regular
work hours, but perhaps just something they needed to be told about during their
normal working day.
As your sources of potential issues increase, you’ll need to get better at prioritizing
what things cause what types of alerts. Otherwise, you may well find yourself strug‐
gling to separate the trivial from the urgent.
Alert fatigue
Often, too many alerts can cause significant issues. In 1979, there was a partial melt‐
down of a reactor at the Three Mile Island nuclear power station in the US. The
investigation into the incident highlighted the fact that the operators of the facility
were so overwhelmed by the alerts they were seeing that it was impossible to deter‐
mine what action needed to be taken. There was an alert indicating the fundamental
problem that needed to be addressed, but this wasn’t something that was obvious to
the operators, as so many other alerts were going off at the same time. During the
public hearing into the incident, one of the operators, Craig Faust, recalled that “I
would have liked to have thrown away the alarm panel. It wasn’t giving us any useful
information.” The report into the incident concluded that the control room “was
greatly inadequate for managing an accident.”9
More recently, we have seen this issue of too many alerts being raised in the context
of a series of incidents with the 737 Max aircraft that included two separate air
crashes that killed 346 people in total. The initial report10 into the issues by the US
National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) drew attention to the confusing alerts
330 
| 
Chapter 10: From Monitoring to Observability
