11 Jan Schaumann (@jschauma), Twitter, November 5, 2020, 4:22 p.m., https://oreil.ly/QaCm2.
Likewise, all data should be stored safely and all encryption keys held securely, and as
we have to assume someone is listening, all sensitive data in transit within our system
needs to be encrypted.
Interestingly, if you have properly implemented a zero-trust mindset, you can start to
do things that seem pretty odd:
[With zero trust] you can actually make certain counter-intuitive access decisions and
for example allow connections to internal services from the internet because you treat
your “internal” network as equally trustworthy as the internet (i.e., not at all).
—Jan Schaumann11
Jan’s argument here is that if you assume that nothing inside your network is to be
trusted, and that trust has to be reestablished, you can be much more flexible about
the environment in which your microservice lives—you aren’t expecting the wider
environment to be secure. But remember, zero trust isn’t something you turn on with
a switch. It’s an underlying principle for how you decide to do things. It has to drive
your decision making about how you build and evolve your system—it’s going to be
something that you have to constantly invest in to get the rewards.
It’s a Spectrum
I don’t mean to imply that you have a stark choice between implicit and zero trust.
The extent to which you trust (or don’t) other parties in your system could change
based on the sensitivity of the information being accessed. You might decide, for
example, to adopt a concept of zero trust for any microservices handling PII but be
more relaxed in other areas. Again, the cost of any security implementation should be
justified (and driven) by your threat model. Let your understanding of your threats
and their associated impact drive your decision making around whether or not zero
trust is worth it to you.
As an example, lets look at MedicalCo, a company I worked with that managed sensi‐
tive healthcare data pertaining to individuals. All information it held was classified
based on a fairly sensible and straightforward approach:
Public
Data that could be freely shared with any external party. This information is
effectively in the public domain.
Private
Information that should be available only to logged-in users. Access to this infor‐
mation could be further limited due to authorization restrictions. This might
include things such as which insurance plan a customer was on.
Implicit Trust Versus Zero Trust 
| 
367
