About the Author
Sam Newman is an independent consultant, an author, and a speaker. In over 20
years in the industry, he has worked across different technology stacks and in differ‐
ent domains with companies all over the world. His main focus is in helping organi‐
zations get software into production more quickly and safely, and helping them
navigate the complexities of microservices. He is also the author of Monolith to
Microservices, also from O’Reilly.
Colophon
The animals on the cover of Building Microservices, Second Edition, are honeybees
(of the genus Apis). Of the more than 20,000 species of bees, there are only eight spe‐
cies of honeybees. These social-nesting bees are unique in how they collectively pro‐
duce and store honey, as well as build hives from wax. Beekeeping to collect honey
has been a human pursuit around the world for thousands of years.
Honeybee hives contain thousands of individuals and have a very organized social
structure comprising a queen, drones, and workers. Each hive has one queen, which
remains fertile for 3–5 years after her mating flight and lays up to 2,000 eggs per day.
Drones are male bees that mate with the queen (and die in the act because of their
barbed sex organs). Worker bees are sterile females that fill many roles during their
lifetime, such as nursemaid, construction worker, grocer, guard, undertaker, and for‐
ager. Pollen-laden worker bees returning to the hive “dance” in set patterns to com‐
municate information about nearby food.
Though queens are a bit larger, honeybees are otherwise similar in appearance, with
transparent wings, six legs, and a body segmented into a head, thorax, and abdomen.
They have short fuzzy hairs in a striped yellow and black pattern. The adults’ diet is
made up exclusively of honey, which is created by a process of partially digesting and
then regurgitating sugar-rich flower nectar.
Bees are crucial to agriculture; as they collect their food, they pollinate crops. Com‐
mercial bee hives are transported by beekeepers to where crops need to be pollinated.
On average, each hive of bees gathers 66 pounds of pollen a year. In recent years,
however, colony collapse disorder, brought about by a variety of diseases and other
stressors, has caused an alarming decline among honeybee species.
Honeybees are vulnerable to the same pesticides and introduced parasites and disea‐
ses that have driven down numbers of wild bees and other pollinators, but honeybees
do have some human support and protection because they are key in agriculture.
Many of the animals on O’Reilly covers are endangered; all of them are important to
the world.
