6 Troy Hunt, “Passwords Evolved: Authentication Guidance for the Modern Era,” July 26, 2017, https://oreil.ly/
T7PYM.
7 Neil McAllister, “Code Spaces Goes Titsup FOREVER After Attacker NUKES Its Amazon-Hosted Data,” The
Register, June 18, 2014, https://oreil.ly/mw7PC.
User credentials
User credentials, such as email and password combinations, remain essential to how
many of us work with our software, but they also are a potential weak spot when it
comes to our systems being accessed by malicious parties. Verizon’s 2020 Data
Breach Investigations Report found that some form of credential theft was used in
80% of cases caused by hacking. This includes situations in which credentials were
stolen through mechanisms like phishing attacks or where passwords were brute-
forced.
There is some excellent advice out there about how to properly handle things like
passwords—advice that despite being simple and clear to follow is still not being
adopted widely enough. Troy Hunt has an excellent overview of the latest advice
from both NIST and the UK’s National Cyber Security Centre.6 This advice includes
recommendations to use password managers and long passwords, to avoid the use of
complex password rules, and—somewhat surprisingly—to avoid mandated regular
password changes. Troy’s full post is worth reading in detail.
In the current era of API-driven systems, our credentials also extend to managing
things like API keys for third-party systems, such as accounts for your public cloud
provider. If a malicious party gains access to your root AWS account, for example,
they could decide to destroy everything running in that account. In one extreme
example, such an attack resulted in a company called Code Spaces7 going out of busi‐
ness—all of their resources were running in a single account, backups and all. The
irony of Code Spaces offering “Rock Solid, Secure and Affordable Svn Hosting, Git
Hosting and Project Management” is not lost on me.
Even if someone gets hold of your API keys for your cloud provider and doesn’t
decide to destroy everything you’ve built, they might decide to spin up some expen‐
sive virtual machines to run some bitcoin mining in the hope that you won’t notice.
This happened to one of my clients, who discovered that someone had spent over
$10K doing just this before the account was shut down. It turns out that attackers
know how to automate too—there are bots out there that will just scan for credentials
and try to use them to launch machines for cryptocurrency mining.
Foundations of Application Security 
| 
355
