Figure 8-12. Different trade-offs around isolation models
If you were deploying your microservices onto more abstracted platforms such as
AWS Lambda or Heroku, this isolation would be provided for you. Depending on the
nature of the platform itself, you could likely expect your microservice instance to
end up running inside a container or dedicated VM behind the scenes.
In general, the isolation around containers has improved sufficiently to make them a
more natural choice for microservice workloads. The difference in isolation between
containers and VMs has reduced to the point that for the vast majority of workloads,
containers are “good enough,” which is in large part why they are such a popular
choice and why they tend to be my default choice in most situations.
Focus on Automation
As you add more microservices, you’ll have more moving parts to deal with—more
processes, more things to configure, more instances to monitor. Moving to microser‐
vices pushes a lot of complexity into the operational space, and if you are managing
your operational processes in a mostly manual way, this means that more services
will require more and more people to do things.
Instead, you need a relentless focus on automation. Select tooling and technology
that allows for things to be done in an automatic fashion, ideally with a view to work‐
ing with infrastructure as code (which we’ll cover shortly).
As the number of microservices increases, automation becomes increasingly impor‐
tant. Give serious consideration to technology that allows for a high degree of auto‐
mation, and adopt automation as a core part of your culture.
Automation is also how you can make sure that your developers still remain produc‐
tive. Giving developers the ability to self-service-provision individual services or
groups of services is the key to making their lives easier.
Picking technology that enables automation starts with the tools used to manage
hosts. Can you write a line of code to launch a virtual machine, or shut one down?
Can you deploy the software you have written automatically? Can you deploy
Principles of Microservice Deployment 
| 
231
