Getting a picture of our system and how it is behaving is important, especially when
we’re at scale. We’ve covered a number of different techniques that will help us gain
understanding directly from our system. By tracking the health of our downstream
services together with correlation IDs to help us see call chains, we can get real data
in terms of how our services interrelate. Using service discovery systems like Consul,
we can see where our microservices are running. Mechanisms like OpenAPI and
CloudEvents can help us see what capabilities are being hosted on any given end‐
point, while our health check pages and monitoring systems let us know the health of
both the overall system and individual services.
All of this information is available programmatically. All of this data allows us to
make our humane registry more powerful than a simple wiki page that will no doubt
get out of date. Instead, we should use it to harness and display all the information
our system will be emitting. By creating custom dashboards, we can pull together the
vast array of information that is available to help us make sense of our ecosystem.
By all means, start with something as simple as a static web page or wiki that perhaps
scrapes in a bit of data from the live system. But look to pull in more and more infor‐
mation over time. Making this information readily available is a key tool for manag‐
ing the emerging complexity that will come from running these systems at scale.
I’ve spoken with a number of companies that have had these issues and that ended up
creating simple in-house registries to help collate metadata around services. Some of
these registries simply crawl source code repositories, looking for metadata files to
build up a list of services out there. This information can be merged with real data
coming from service discovery systems like Consul or etcd to build up a richer pic‐
ture of what is running and whom you could speak to about it.
The Financial Times created Biz Ops to help address this problem. The company has
several hundred services developed by teams all over the world. The Biz Ops tool
(Figure 5-8) gives the company a single place where you can find out lots of useful
information about its microservices, in addition to information about other IT infra‐
structure services such as networks and file servers. Built on top of a graph database,
Biz Ops has a lot of flexibility about what data it gathers and how the information can
be modeled.
Documenting Services 
| 
171
