2 Jason Bloomberg, “Innovation: The Flip Side of Resilience,” Forbes, September 23, 2014, https://oreil.ly/
avSmU.
Having an agreed plan of action in place in anticipation of this sort of problem can
help you better rebound.
Graceful Extensibility
With rebound and robustness, we are primarily dealing with the expected. We are
putting mechanisms in place to deal with problems that we can foresee. But what
happens when we are surprised? If we aren’t prepared for surprise—for the fact that
our expected view of the world might be wrong—we end up with a brittle system. As
we approach the limits of what we expect our system to be able to handle, things fall
apart—we are unable to perform adequately.
Flatter organizations—where responsibility is distributed into the organization rather
than held centrally—will often be better prepared to deal with surprise. When the
unexpected occurs, if people are restricted in what they have to do, if they have to
adhere to a strict set of rules, their ability to deal with surprise will be critically
curtailed.
Often, in a drive to optimize our system, we can as an unfortunate side effect increase
the brittleness of our system. Take automation as an example. Automation is fantas‐
tic—it allows us to do more with the people we have, but it can also allow us to reduce
the people we have, as more can be done with automation. This reduction in staff can
be concerning, though. Automation can’t handle surprise—our ability to gracefully
extend our system, to handle surprise, comes from having people in place with the
right skills, experience, and responsibility to handle these situations as they arise.
Sustained Adaptability
Having sustained adaptability requires us to not be complacent. As David Woods
puts it: “No matter how good we have done before, no matter how successful we’ve
been, the future could be different, and we might not be well adapted. We might be
precarious and fragile in the face of that new future.”2 That we haven’t yet suffered
from a catastrophic outage doesn’t mean that it cannot happen. We need to challenge
ourselves to make sure we are constantly adapting what we do as an organization to
ensure future resiliency. Done right, a concept like chaos engineering—which we’ll
explore briefly later in this chapter—can be a useful tool in helping build sustained
adaptability.
Sustained adaptability often requires a more holistic view of the system. This is, para‐
doxically, where a drive toward smaller, autonomous teams with increased local,
focused responsibility can end with us losing sight of the bigger picture. As we’ll
390 
| 
Chapter 12: Resiliency
