In the end we realized that whatever the shortcomings of the system design were, we
would have to make changes to the organizational structure to make a shift. The
company is now much changed, but it happened over a period of many years.
People
No matter how it looks at first, it’s always a people problem.
—Gerry Weinberg, The Second Law of Consulting
We have to accept that in a microservice environment, it is harder for a developer to
think about writing code in their own little world. They have to be more aware of the
implications of things like calls across network boundaries or the implications of fail‐
ure. We’ve also talked about the ability of microservices to make it easier to try out
new technologies, from data stores to languages. But if you’re moving from a world
in which you have a monolithic system, where the majority of your developers have
had to use only one language and have remained completely oblivious to the opera‐
tional concerns, throwing them into the world of microservices may be a rude awak‐
ening for them.
Likewise, pushing power into development teams to increase autonomy can be
fraught. People who in the past have thrown work over the wall to someone else are
accustomed to having someone else to blame and may not feel comfortable being
fully accountable for their work. You may even find contractual barriers to having
your developers carry pagers for the systems they support! These changes can be
made in a gradual way, and initially it will make sense to look to change responsibili‐
ties for people who are most willing and able to make the change.
Although this book has mostly been about technology, people are not just a side con‐
sideration; they are the people who built what you have now and will build what hap‐
pens next. Coming up with a vision for how things should be done without
considering how your current staff will feel about it and without considering what
capabilities they have is likely to lead to a bad place.
Each organization has its own set of dynamics around this topic. Understand your
staff’s appetite for change. Don’t push them too fast! Maybe you can have a separate
team handle frontline support or deployment for a short period, giving your develop‐
ers time to adjust to new practices. You may, however, have to accept that you need
different sorts of people in your organization to make this all work. You will likely
need to change how you hire—in fact, it might be easier to show what is possible by
bringing in new people from outside who already have experience in working the way
you want. The right new hires may well go a long way toward showing others what is
possible.
Whatever your approach, understand that you need to be clear in articulating the
responsibilities of your people in a microservices world, and also be clear about why
People 
| 
523
