Stock Change event, letting Recommendation (or any other subscribers to this event)
know that the stock level has increased or decreased for a given item.
Figure 13-14. Inventory fires Stock Change events, which Recommendation can use to
update its local cache
The main benefit of this mechanism is that it reduces the potential window wherein
the cache is serving stale data. The window in which a cache might now be serving
stale data is limited to the time taken for the notification to be sent and processed.
Depending on the mechanism you use to send the notification, this could be pretty
fast.
The downside here is the complexity of implementation. We need the origin to be
able to emit notifications, and we need interested parties to be able to respond to
these notifications. Now, this is a natural place to make use of something like a mes‐
sage broker, as this model fits neatly into the typical pub/sub-style interactions that
many brokers provide. The additional guarantees that the broker might be able to
give us could also be helpful. That said, as we’ve already discussed in “Message Brok‐
ers” on page 135, there is an overhead to managing messaging middleware, and it
might be overkill if you were using it only for this purpose. If you were using brokers
for other forms of inter-microservice communication, however, it would make sense
to make use of technology that you already had on hand.
One problem to be aware of when using notification-based invalidation is that you
may want to know whether the notification mechanism is actually working or not.
Consider a situation in which we haven’t received any Stock Changed events from
Inventory for a while. Does that mean we haven’t sold items or had items restocked
during that time? Perhaps. It could also mean our notification mechanism is down
and that we aren’t being sent updates any more. If this is a concern, then we could
send a heartbeat event via the same notification mechanism—Recommendation, in
our case—to let subscribers know that notifications are still coming, but nothing has
Caching 
| 
445
