Detect
With a microservice architecture, detecting an incident can be more complex. We
have more networks to monitor and more machines to keep an eye on. The sources
of information are greatly increased, which can make detecting problems all the more
difficult. Many of the techniques we explored in Chapter 10, such as log aggregation,
can help us gather information that will help us detect that something bad might be
happening. In addition to those, there are special tools like intrusion detection sys‐
tems that you might run to spot bad behavior. The software to deal with the increas‐
ing complexity of our systems is improving, especially in the space of container
workloads with tools like Aqua.
Respond
If the worst has happened and you’ve found out about it, what should you do? Work‐
ing out an effective incident response approach is vital to limiting the damage caused
by a breach. This normally starts with understanding the scope of the breach and
what data has been exposed. If the data exposed includes personally identifiable
information (PII), then you need to follow both security and privacy incident
response and notification processes. This may well mean that you have to talk to dif‐
ferent parts of your organization, and in some situations you may be legally obliged
to inform an appointed data protection officer when certain types of breach occur.
Many an organization has compounded the impact of a breach through its mishan‐
dling of the aftermath, often leading to increased financial penalties quite aside from
the damage caused to its brand and its relationship with customers. It’s important,
therefore, to understand not just what you have to do because of legal or compliance
reasons but also what you should do in terms of looking after the users of your soft‐
ware. The GDPR, for example, requires that personal data breaches are reported to
the relevant authorities within 72 hours—a timeline that doesn’t seem overly oner‐
ous. That doesn’t mean you couldn’t strive to let people know earlier if a breach of
their data has occurred.
Aside from the external communication aspects of response, how you handle things
internally is also critical. Organizations that have a culture of blame and fear are
likely going to fare badly in the wake of a major incident. Lessons won’t be learned,
and contributing factors won’t come to light. On the other hand, an organization that
focuses on openness and safety will be best placed to learn the lessons that ensure that
similar incidents are less likely to happen. We’ll come back to this in “Blame” on page
415.
The Five Functions of Cybersecurity 
| 
353
