6 It’s outside the scope of this book, but Hector Garcia-Molina and Kenneth Salem went on to explore how
multiple sagas could be “nested” to implement more complex processes. To read more on this topic, see Hec‐
tor Garcia-Molina et al., “Modeling Long-Running Activities as Nested Sagas,” Data Engineering 14, no. 1
(March 1991: 14–18).
part of this saga. When one of our services reacts to an event, the correlation ID is
extracted and used for any local logging processes, and it’s also passed downstream
with any further calls or events that are fired. We could then have a service whose job
it is to just vacuum up all these events and present a view of what state each order is
in, and perhaps programmatically carry out actions to resolve issues as part of the ful‐
fillment process if the other services couldn’t do it themselves. I consider some form
of correlation ID essential for choreographed sagas like this, but correlation IDs also
have a lot of value more generally, something we explore in more depth in Chap‐
ter 10.
Mixing styles
While it may seem that orchestrated and choreographed sagas are diametrically
opposing views of how sagas could be implemented, you could easily consider mixing
and matching models. You may have some business processes in your system that
more naturally fit one model or another. You may also have a single saga that has a
mix of styles. In the order fulfillment use case, for example, inside the boundary of
the Warehouse service, when managing the packaging and dispatch of an order, we
may use an orchestrated flow even if the original request was made as part of a larger
choreographed saga.6
If you do decide to mix styles, it’s important that you still have a clear way to under‐
stand what state a saga is in, and what activities have already happened as part of a
saga. Without this, understanding failure modes becomes complex, and recovery
from failure is difficult.
Tracing Calls
Whether you chose choreography or orchestration, when implementing a business
process using multiple microservices, it’s common to want to be able to trace all the
calls related to the process. This can sometimes be just to help you understand if the
business process is working correctly, or it could be to help you diagnose a problem.
In Chapter 10 we’ll look at concepts such as correlation IDs and log aggregation and
how they can help in this regard.
194 
| 
Chapter 6: Workflow
