About the Author
Susan Fowler is a site reliability engineer at Uber Technologies, where she splits her
time between running a production-readiness initiative across all Uber microservices
and embedding within business-critical teams to bring their services to a production-
ready state. She worked on application platforms and infrastructure at several small
startups before joining Uber, and before that, studied particle physics at Penn, where
she searched for supersymmetry and designed hardware for the ATLAS and CMS
detectors.
Colophon
The animals on the cover of Production-Ready Microservices are leafcutter bees (of the
genus Megachile). There are over 1,500 species of this insect, which is widespread
throughout the world. One species from Indonesia, Megachile pluto, is thought to be
the largest bee in the world: individuals can be up to 0.9–1.5 inches long.
Leafcutter bees gain their name from the female’s common activity of cutting neat
semicircles from the edges of leaves. She then carries these disc-shaped leaf pieces to
her nest, which can be built in various places such as ready-made hollows, burrows in
the ground, or rotting wood that the bee can bore into. Nests are between 4–8 inches
long, cylindrical, and lined with leaf pieces in an overlapping pattern. These insects
do not live in colonies, though it’s possible for individuals to nest near each other.
The females arrange their nests in separate cells (building from the inside out) and lay
one egg within each, along with a regurgitated pollen-and-nectar ball for the larva to
eat. It is theorized that the leaves keep the larva’s food from drying out until it can be
eaten.
Adult bees also feed on nectar and pollen, and are very efficient pollinators due to
their vigorous swimming-like motion while inside flowers (which shakes a great deal
of pollen loose and coats the long hairs on the insect’s abdomen). Females often need
to take 10–15 trips to provision an individual nest cell, further increasing their effec‐
tiveness in cross-pollination. Thus, these bees are welcome inhabitants in many gar‐
dens and farms; artificial nesting boxes or tubes can be placed to attract them.
Many of the animals on O’Reilly covers are endangered; all of them are important to
the world. To learn more about how you can help, go to animals.oreilly.com.
The cover image is from Lydekker’s Royal Natural History. The cover fonts are URW
Typewriter and Guardian Sans. The text font is Adobe Minion Pro; the heading font
is Adobe Myriad Condensed; and the code font is Dalton Maag’s Ubuntu Mono.
