(production-ready) deployment pipelines are covered in detail in Chapter 3, Stability
and Reliability.
Logging and monitoring
All microservices should have microservice-level logging of all requests made to the
microservice (including all relevant and important information) and its responses.
Due to the fast-paced nature of microservice development, it’s often impossible to
reproduce bugs in the code because it’s impossible to reconstruct the state of the sys‐
tem at the time of failure. Good microservice-level logging gives developers the infor‐
mation they need to fully understand the state of their service at a certain time in the
past or present. Microservice-level monitoring of all key metrics of the microservices is
essential for similar reasons: accurate, real-time monitoring allows developers to
always know the health and status of their service. Microservice-level logging and
monitoring are covered in greater detail in ???.
Summary of Layer 3: The Application Platform Layer
The application platform layer (layer 3) of the microservice ecosystem contains:
• Self-service internal development tools
• Development environment
• Test, package, build, and release tools
• Deployment pipeline
• Microservice-level logging
• Microservice-level monitoring
Layer 4: Microservices
At the very top of the microservice ecosystem lies the microservice layer (layer 4). This
layer is where the microservices—and anything specific to them—live, completely
abstracted away from the lower infrastructure layers. Here they are abstracted from
the hardware, from deployment, from service discovery, from load balancing, and
from communication. The only things that are not abstracted away from the micro‐
service layer are the configurations specific to each service for using the tools.
It is common practice in software engineering to centralize all application configura‐
tions so that the configurations for a specific tool or set of tools (like configuration
management, resource isolation, or deployment tools) are all stored with the tool
itself. For example, custom deployment configurations for applications are often
stored not with the application code but with the code for the deployment tool. This
The Microservice Ecosystem 
| 
19
