resolve it. It will also describe any organizational implications of the alert: the severity
of the problem, whether or not the alert signifies an outage, and information about
how to communicate any incidents and outages to the team, and if necessary, to the
rest of the engineering organization.
Write On-Call Runbooks That Sleepy Developers Can Understand at
2 A.M.
Developers on call for a service may (or, more realistically, will) be
paged at any hour of the day, including late at night or very early in
the morning. Write your on-call runbooks so that a half-asleep
developer will be able to follow along without any difficulty.
Writing good, clear, easily understandable on-call runbooks is extremely important.
They should be written so that any developer who is on call for the service or who is
experiencing trouble with the service will be able to act quickly, diagnose the prob‐
lem, mitigate the incident, and resolve, all in an extremely small amount of time in
order to keep the downtime of the service very, very low.
Not every alert will be easily mitigated or resolved, and most outages (aside from
those caused by code bugs introduced by a recent deployment) haven’t been seen
before. To equip developers to handle these problems wisely, add a general trouble‐
shooting and debugging section to the on-call runbook in the documentation that is
filled with tips on how to approach new problems in a strategic and methodical way.
FAQ
An often forgotten element of documentation is a section devoted to answering com‐
mon questions about the service. Having a “Frequently Asked Questions” section
takes the burden of answering common questions off of whomever is on call and,
consequently, the rest of the team.
There are two categories of questions that should be answered here. The first are
questions that developers on other teams ask about the service. The way to approach
answering these questions in an FAQ setting is simple: if someone asks you a ques‐
tion, and you think it might be asked again, add it to the FAQ. The second category of
questions are those that come from team members, and the same approach can be
taken here: if there’s a question about how or why or when to do something related to
the service, add it to the FAQ.
68 
| 
Chapter 7: Documentation and Understanding
