The infrastructure has to sustain the microservice ecosystem. The goal of all infra‐
structure engineers and architects must be to remove the low-level operational con‐
cerns from microservice development and build a stable infrastructure that can scale,
one that developers can easily build and run microservices on top of. Developing a
microservice within a stable microservice ecosystem should be just like developing a
small standalone application. This requires very sophisticated, top-notch infrastruc‐
ture.
The microservice ecosystem can be split into four layers (Figure 1-7), though the
boundaries of each are not always clearly defined: some elements of the infrastructure
will touch every part of the stack. The lower three layers are the infrastructure layers:
at the bottom of the stack we find the hardware layer, and on top of that, the commu‐
nication layer (which bleeds up into the fourth layer), followed by the application
platform. The fourth (top) layer is where all individual microservices live.
Figure 1-7. Four-layer model of the microservice ecosystem
Layer 1: Hardware
At the very bottom of the microservice ecosystem, we find the hardware layer. These
are the actual machines, the real, physical computers that all internal tools and all
microservices run on. These servers are located on racks within datacenters, being
cooled by expensive HVAC systems and powered by electricity. Many different types
of servers can live here: some are optimized for databases; others for processing CPU-
intensive tasks. These servers can either be owned by the company itself, or “rented”
from so-called cloud providers like Amazon Web Services’ Elastic Compute Cloud
(AWS EC2), Google Cloud Platform (GCP), or Microsoft Azure.
The choice of specific hardware is determined by the owners of the servers. If your
company is running your own datacenters, the choice of hardware is your own, and
you can optimize the server choice for your specific needs. If you are running servers
in the cloud (which is the more common scenario), your choice is limited to whatever
hardware is offered by the cloud provider. Choosing between bare metal and a cloud
12 
| 
Chapter 1: Microservices
